

                             CAPTAIN SALT
                                 IN OZ

Dear Boys and Girls:

    Another year--
    Another book,
    And this time a voyage
    That Sam Salt took
    In that good old Ship,
    The _Crescent Moon_--
    Steering by compass,
    By star and moon,
    To discover new countries
    For OZ. Hear! Hear!
    He's discovered a whole
    New Hemisphere!
    Three cheers for Sam,
    And his jolly crew,
    And three for OZ
    And three for YOU,
    And three for me,
    Though I don't need cheer
    'Cause the letters you write
    Keep me gay ALL year!

So keep writing to me about Oz and everything, will you? And remember
to put your full name and complete address on the letter. Righto!

And Best till I hear from you!



                           LIST OF CHAPTERS

       1 SAIL HO!

       2 ANCHORS AWEIGH

       3 THE FIRE BABY

       4 SAMUEL'S FIRST SPECIMEN

       5 PATRIPPANY ISLAND

       6 A LITTLE WILD MAN

       7 STRANGE SPECIMENS FOR SAMUEL SALT

       8 MAXIMS FOR MONARCHS

       9 SEA LEGS FOR TANDY

      10 THE CITY OF BRIDGES

      11 THE PRINCE OF THE PEAKS

      12 FOG

      13 THE SEA FOREST

      14 THE SEA UNICORN!

      15 THE COLLECTOR IS COLLECTED

      16 THE STORM!

      17 THE OLD MAN OF THE JUNGLE!

      18 A NEW COUNTRY

      19 BOGLODORE'S REVENGE

      20 KING TANDY

      21 A VOYAGE RESUMED




CHAPTER 1

Sail Ho!


Eight miles east of Pingaree lies the eight-sided island of King
Ato the Eighth. While not so large as Pingaree, the Octagon Isle is
nevertheless one of the tidiest and most pleasing of the sea realms
that dot the great green rolling expanses of the Nonestic Ocean. And
Ato himself is as pleasing as his island, enormously fat and jolly with
a kind word for everyone.

In his eight-sided castle, he has every modern convenience and comfort
and some of which even an up-to-date country like our own cannot boast.
For instance, take Roger, his Royal Read Bird. Roger, besides knowing
eight languages, can read aloud for hours at a time without growing
hoarse or weary. So Ato never has to strain his eyes poring over his
eight hundred huge volumes of adventure and history, nor his arms
holding a newspaper or court document, nor his jaw pronouncing the
names of kings and countries in Ev and Oz and other curious places on
the mainland west of his own island. And Roger is as handsome as he
is handy, his head and bill rather like a duck's, his body shaped and
colored like a parrot, but much larger, while his tail opens out into
an enormous fan. This is extremely fortunate, for the Octagon Isle
is semi-tropical in climate, and on warm sultry days, Roger not only
reads to his Majesty, but fans him as well. All in all, Ato's life is
decidedly luxurious and lazy.

Sixentwo, Chief Chancellor of the realm, and Four'nfour, its treasurer,
attend to all the business of governing, so that Ato and Roger have
little to do but enjoy themselves. The Octagon Islanders, one hundred
and eighty in number, are a sober and industrious lot, rarely giving
any trouble.

Once, it is true, they sailed off and deserted the King entirely, but
Ato, with Peter, a Philadelphia boy, and Samuel Salt, a pirate, who
landed on the Island at just the right moment, immediately set out
after them, using the pirate's stout ship the _Crescent Moon_, for the
purpose.

By a strange coincidence, Samuel Salt's men had also mutinied and
sailed away, so that there were two sets of deserters to seek out
and discover. After a dangerous and lively voyage, the _Crescent
Moon_ reached the rocky shores of Menankypoo on the Mainland. Here
they learned that the Octagon Islanders and Samuel Salt's men had
been enslaved by Ruggedo, the former Gnome King, and marched off to
conquer the Emerald City of Oz. How Peter and the Pirate, Ato and a
poetical Pig outwitted the Gnome King is a long and other story. You
have probably read it yourself. But ever since their hair-raising
experiences with Ruggedo, and their rescue by Ato, the Octagon
Islanders have been perfectly satisfied with their own ruler and
country. In fact, they were so docile and devoted, so fearfully anxious
to please, Ato often wished they would revolt or sass him a little just
to relieve the monotony and make life more interesting.

To tell the truth, after serving as cook, mate and able-bodied seaman
on the _Crescent Moon_, Ato found it quite boring to settle down to
a humdrum life of a monarch ashore. Roger, too, missed the gay and
carefree life he had led as a pirate and could not even pretend an
interest in the books of adventure he still dutifully read to his
Master. He and Ato now spent most of their time on the edge of the
Island--the King in a comfortable hammock swung between two palm
trees, Roger on a tall golden perch set close beside him. Whenever the
Read Bird paused to yawn or turn a page, Ato would pull himself up to
a sitting position, raise the telescope he always had with him and
gaze long and wistfully out to sea. Many ships passed Ato's Island,
but never a one in the least resembling the splendid three-masted fast
sailing ship belonging to the Pirate.

"You'll give yourself a fine squint there," warned Roger one morning,
as Ato for about the hundredth time raised his spy glass. "And what is
the use of it, pray?" inquired Roger grumpily, ruffling the pages of
the Book of Barons. "Samuel Salt has probably forgotten all about us
and gone off by himself on a voyage of discovery."

"No! No! Sammy wouldn't do that," said the King, shaking his head
positively. "He promised to stop by for us on the very first voyage he
made as Royal Discoverer of Oz."

"Ho, one of those seafaring promises!" muttered Roger. "A pirate's
promise. Humph! His new honors have gone to his head. Quite a jump from
pirating to exploring. I'll wager a wing he's gone back to buccaneering
and forgotten us altogether!"

"Now, Roger, how can you say that?" Heaving up his huge bulk with
great difficulty, Ato looked reproachfully at his Royal Read Bird.
"Sammy never cared for pirating in the first place," wheezed the King
earnestly, "and he was so soft-hearted about planking the captives and
burning the ships, his band sailed off and left him. They only made him
Captain because he was clever at navigating, and you know perfectly
well he spent more time looking for flora and fauna than for ships and
treasure."

"Ah, then I suppose some wild Flora or Fauna has him in its clutches,"
observed Roger sarcastically, "and a likely thing that is, seeing the
poor Captain weighs but two hundred and twenty pounds and stands six
feet in his socks."

"What a tremendous fellow he was," sighed Ato, sinking dreamily back in
his hammock and half closing his eyes. "I'll never forget how high and
handsome he looked when Queen Ozma asked him to give up buccaneering,
and serve her instead as Royal Discoverer and Explorer for Oz! And
a fitting reward it was, too, for capturing Ruggedo and saving the
Kingdom. Aha, my lad, THAT was a day! And we had our share of glory,
too! Remember how they cheered us in the Emerald City of Oz?"

"Aye, I remember THAT day and a good many other days since," sniffed
the Read Bird disagreeably. "Six months from that day Samuel Salt was
to sail into our Harbor. Well, King--it's been six times six months,
and nary a sail nor a sign of him have we seen."

"That long?" said Ato, blinking unhappily.

"That long and longer. Three years, eleven months, twenty-six days and
twelve hours, to be exact!"

"Dear, dear and dear! Then something's happened to him," murmured
Ato. "He's either been shipwrecked, captured or enchanted! I'll never
believe Sammy would forget us or break his promise. Never!"

"Well, whatever you believe, the results are the same." Flapping open
his book, Roger prepared to go on with his reading. "And depend upon
it," he insisted stubbornly, "we'll never see Samuel Salt again, so
you may as well put up your telescope and put your mind on something
else for a change. Maybe it's your cooking that's keeping him away,"
finished the Read Bird, who felt cross and fractious and contrary as a
goat.

"My cooking?" roared Ato, roused to honest anger at last. "I've a
notion to have you plucked and roasted for that. My cooking, indeed!
Show me the fellow who can beat up an omelette, a cake, a batch of
biscuits, faster than I; who can brown a fowl, broil a steak or toss
out a pan of fried potatoes to compare with mine. I--I, why, I'm
surprised at you, Roger!"

Roger, ruffling his feathers uncomfortably, was rather surprised at
himself, for the King was speaking the exact truth; a more skillful man
with a skillet it would be impossible to find in any kingdom. Ever
since his voyage on the _Crescent Moon_, cooking had been Ato's chief
pleasure and pastime. The castle chef, though he heartily disapproved
of a King in the kitchen, could do nothing to discourage him, so
finally stood by in grudging envy and admiration as Ato turned out his
delectable puddings, pies, roasts and sauces.

Muttering with hurt pride and indignation, his Majesty continued to
frown at the Read Bird, and realizing he had gone too far, Roger
started to read as fast as he could from the Book of Barons. As he read
on, he could see the King growing calmer and finally, pausing to turn a
page, he let his gaze rove idly over the harbor.

"Anchors and animal crackers! What was that?" Stretching up his neck,
Roger took another look, then, flinging the Book of Barons high into
the air, he spread his wings and started out to sea.

Soothed by the droning voice of the Read Bird, Ato had closed his
eyes and the first warning he had of Roger's departure was a terrific
thump as the Book of Barons landed on his stomach. Leaping out of the
hammock as if he had been shot, the outraged Monarch looked furiously
around for his Read Bird. This really was too much. Not satisfied with
insulting him, Roger must now be bombarding him with books, cocoanuts
and what not.

Shading his eyes with his hand, Ato glared up and down the beach and
finally out over the rippling blue ocean. At what he saw there, the
King forgot his anger as completely as Roger had forgotten his manners.
For, swinging jauntily into the Octagon Harbor was the _Crescent Moon_
herself! No mistaking the high-prowed, deep-waisted, powerful craft of
the Pirate. But a new and gayer pennant fluttered from the mizzenmast
today. Instead of the skull and bones, Samuel was flying the green and
white banner of Oz, as befitted the Royal Discoverer and Explorer of
the most famous Fairyland in History.

"He's here! He's come!" shouted Ato, running wildly up and down.
"Samuel! SAM-U-EL!" In his delight and excitement the King forgot the
Royal dock and began wading out into the bay. Peering around his
wheel, Sammy saw him coming and broke into a loud cheerful greeting.

"Hi, King! Ho, King! How are you, you son of a Lubber! Wait till I
ease her in and I'll be ashore quicker than quick." Roger had already
reached the _Crescent Moon_ and, perched on the Captain's shoulder, was
chattering away at such a rate Samuel could hardly keep his mind on his
steering. But he was an old hand at such matters, and before Ato had
half recovered from the shock of seeing him, the shining three-masted
vessel was made fast, and its Master striding exuberantly up the wet
planks of the royal dock.

"Ahoy! Ahoy!" he boomed boisterously. "What a day for a voyage! Is it
really my old cook and shipmate?"

"None other!" puffed Ato, seizing both of the former pirate's hands.
"But what have you done to yourself, Sam-u-el? Where's your sash and
scimiter? And what's that on your head, may I ask? You don't look
natural or seaman-like at all."

"Oh, don't mind these," grinned the Pirate, touching his three-cornered
hat and satin coat apologetically. "These are my shore togs for
impressing the natives. Can't look like pirates when we go ashore this
voyage, Mates. We're explorers and fine gentlemen now, and when we set
the flag of Oz on lofty mountains and rocky isles, when we bring savage
tribes and strange races under the beneficent rule of Ozma of Oz, we
must look like Conquerors. Eh, my lads?"

"Yes--I sup-pose--so!" puffed the King, skipping clumsily to keep up
with the long strides of Captain Salt. "But I'm sorry this is going to
be a dressy affair, Sammy. How'm I to cook in a cocked hat and lace
collar and swab down the deck in velvet pants?"

"Ho, ho! You'll not have to," exploded the Pirate, giving the tail
feathers of the Read Bird a sly tweak. "On shipboard we'll dress as we
please, for the sea is MY country and free as the wind and sun."

"Well, well, I'm glad to hear you say that. Have you still got my old
pirate suit and blunderbuss aboard?" inquired the King anxiously.

"Certain for sure, and a couple of new ones, and WAIT till you see your
galley all fitted out with copper pots, and provisions enough below
to carry us anywhere and back. Wait till you cast your eyes on 'em,
Lubber!"

"Don't you call ME a Lubber!" chuckled Ato, giving Samuel a hearty poke
in the ribs. "I'm as able-bodied a seaman as you, Sammy, and you know
it."

"SIR Samuel, if you please!" roared the former Pirate, striking himself
a great blow on the chest with his clenched fist. "Sir Samuel Salt,
Explorer and Discoverer Extraordinary to the Crown of Oz."

"So--oooh! You've been knighted?" breathed Roger, peering round into
the Captain's face,

    "Ho pass the salt and ring the bell
    And bend the knee to Sir Sam-u-el!"

"Sir Samuel Salt! Well, I'll be peppered!" gasped Ato, sinking down on
the lower step of the palace which they had reached by this time.
"Sir Samuel!"

"Yes, SIR!" boasted the Pirate, rubbing his hands together, "but come
on, step lively, boys; how long'll it take you to pack up and heave
your dunnage aboard? Mustn't keep a Knight of Oz waiting, you know!"

"Keep _you_ waiting?" Suddenly and determinedly, Ato rose to his feet
and shook his finger under Sammy's nose. "Keep YOU waiting? Why, we've
been ready and waiting for this voyage three years, eleven months,
twenty-six days and twelve hours. Where've you been, you great lazy son
of a sea-robber?"

"Four years?" choked the Pirate, falling back in real consternation and
dismay. "Never! It's never been four years, Mates. Why, I've scarcely
had time to sort out the shells and specimens we picked up on the last
voyage, and to fit out the _Crescent Moon_ for the next."

"Where have you been?" repeated Ato, wagging his finger sternly.

"Why, home on Elbow Island, of course. Where else should I have been?"
muttered Samuel, looking distinctly worried and crestfallen.

"Then have you no clocks or calendars in your cave?" demanded the King
accusingly. "And what would the _Crescent Moon_ be needing? I thought
she was about perfect as she was."

"Ah, but wait till you see her now!" exclaimed Samuel, cheering up
immediately at mention of his ship. "The _Crescent Moon_, besides a
new coat of paint, has self-hoisting sails and a mechanical steering
control in case we wish to take it easy occasionally. The Red Jinn
paid me a visit and presented us with these and several other magical
contrivances and improvements. I'm minded to make this voyage with no
crew but ourselves. It's cozier so, don't you think?"

"Yes, but am I still on bird watch and lookout duty?" demanded Roger
jealously.

"Aye, aye!" Samuel Salt assured him heartily.

"I suppose the Red Jinn has supplied you with a mechanical cook in my
place as well as a mechanical steering wheel," murmured Ato, tugging
uneasily at the cord round his waist.

"In your place!" thundered the Pirate. "Why, shiver my timbers, Mate!
Only over my prone and prostrate body shall another man enter my galley
to shuffle my rations, sugar my duff or salt my prog!"

"Hooray, then let's get going!" squealed Roger, bouncing up and down
on Sammy's shoulder. "I was only saying this very morning that you'd
never forget your old friends and shipmates or go on a voyage without
us!"

"Huh! So THAT'S what you were saying!" grunted Ato, looking fixedly at
the Read Bird. "Well, well, let it go. Come along then!"

"Yes, yes, and hurry," screamed Roger, spreading his wings to fly on
ahead.

"Sixentwo! Sevenanone! Where are you?" panted the King, plunging up the
steps after Roger two at a time. "Where is everybody? Pack a bag, a
chest, a couple of trunks. I'm going on a voyage of discovery!"

"And don't forget the cook book!" bawled Samuel Salt, bounding
exuberantly after the King.




CHAPTER 2

Anchors Aweigh!


With the help of eighteen serving men, eight courtiers, Sixentwo,
Sevenanone, and Samuel Salt, who was not above carrying a sea chest
or hamper, Ato began stowing his belongings on the _Crescent Moon_.
There was little court apparel or finery in the King's boxes. Most
of it consisted of bottles of flavoring extract, spiced sauces, cook
books, minced meats, fruits in jars for pies, numerous frying pans, egg
beaters, and rolling pins.

"Are we gypsies, pan handlers, peddlers or what?" panted Samuel Salt as
he dumped the last load breathlessly on the main deck. "Goosewing my
topsails, Mate, many's the fish we cleaned with a jackknife, and potato
we pared with a dagger on the last voyage. Mean to say an explorer
needs to use all these weapons on his pork and beans?"

Checking off a list as his stuff was placed in the galley, Ato nodded
determinedly, then winking good-humoredly at the perspiring Captain,
ducked into the cabin to don his old sea clothes. Samuel was not long
following suit and soon, in short red pants, open shirts and carelessly
tied head kerchiefs, the two went below to inspect the stores Samuel
had laid in for the voyage. Roger, having nothing to bring aboard but
a few books and a bottle of feather oil, was already perched in the
crosstrees of the fore topgallant mast looking longingly toward the
east and waiting impatiently for the ship to get under way. But the
booming voice of the Pirate soon drew him to the lower deck and from
there he swooped down an open hatchway to the hold.

This huge space, usually reserved by the pirates for captives and
treasure, had been neatly divided into two sections. In one were
the tinned, dried and salted meats, the groceries, vegetables and
extra supplies of rope, tar and sail. In the other section there were
numerous shelves, many iron cages, aquariums and sea chests.

"For any strange animals or wild natives we may encounter and wish to
bring home with us," explained Samuel Salt as Roger looked curiously at
the cages. "In those chests are the flags of Oz we shall plant here,
there and everywhere as we sail onward!"

"And to think a new and mighty Empire may grow from this flag
planting," mused Ato, opening one of the sea chests and thoughtfully
fingering one of Ozma's green and white silken banners. "But surely you
don't expect to plant all these, Samuel?"

"Why not?" demanded the Royal Discoverer of Oz with a wave of the
scimiter he had resumed with his old pirate pants. "The sea is broad
and wide and no one's to tell us when we may start or sail home again.
But look, Ato, my lad--these will interest you." Turning from the
chests, Samuel pointed to a stack of long poles lashed to the side of
the ship with leather thongs. "Stilts!" grinned the Pirate as Roger
and Ato stared at them in complete mystification. "Fine for keeping
the shins dry when we wade ashore and don't feel like lowering the
jolly boat. All my own idea." Samuel cleared his throat with pardonable
pride. "Of course, it takes a bit of practice, but we'll try 'em on the
first island we come to. Eh, boys?"

"Well, thank my lucky stars for wings!" breathed Roger after a long
disapproving look at Samuel's stilts. "Two steps and you'll smash
yourself to a jellyfish, Ato. Stick to the boats, men. That's MY
advice!"

"Too bad he has no confidence in us!" roared Samuel, giving Ato a
resounding slap on the back. "Just wait, my saucy bird, and we'll show
you how stilting is done. And now, gaze upon this corner I've set aside
for my specimens; for rare marine growths, for seaweed, for curious
mollusks and other crustacean denizens of the darkest deep."

Samuel coughed apologetically as he always did when he mentioned
his collecting mania, and Roger and Ato, exchanging an amused grin,
swung about to examine the long shelves with iron boxes clamped down
to prevent them from shifting with the motion of the vessel, huge
aquariums fitted into brass holders, and large trays bedded with dried
moss and sand for Samuel's collection of shells.

"You might even bring home a mermaid in this," murmured Ato, touching
the side of an enormous aquarium.

"No women!" snapped Samuel Salt, growing red in the face, for he did
not like to be teased about his specimen collecting. "I'll--I'll have
no women or mermaids switching their tails around my ship and turning
things topsy turvy."

"Right," agreed Ato, giving his belt a vigorous tug. "Then how about
shoving off, Sammy? Everything's shipshape, there's a good wind and
the best way to begin a voyage is to start."

"I'm for it!" roared the Captain, swinging hand over hand up the wooden
ladder. "All hands on deck! Up with your Master's flag, Roger. Cast off
the mooring lines, Ato, while I make sail and we'll be out of here in a
pig's jiffy."

"Aye! Aye!" croaked Roger, seizing the cord that would send Ato's
octagon banner flying to the masthead, directly under the flag of Oz.
"Goodbye, all you lubbers ashore! Goodbye Sevenanone. Mind you keep
the King's Crown polished and don't forget to feed the silver fish."

"GOODBYE!" called the one hundred and eighty Octagon Islanders drawn up
on the beach and dock to see his Majesty sail away. "A fine voyage to
your Highness!"

"And neglect not to return!" shouted Sixentwo, using his hands as a
megaphone. "You know there is a Crown Council eight days and eight
months from yesterday."

"Crown Council be jigged!" sniffed Ato, leaning far over the rail to
wave to his cheering subjects. "I'm a cook, an explorer--and a bold bad
seafaring man out to collect islands and jungles and jillycome-wiggles
for Samuel's shell box. Crown Council, indeed! Don't care if I never
see a castle again."

"Me neither!" squalled Roger, flying up to his post in the foremast.
"Seven bells and all's well! Buoy off the beam and no land in sight."

"Unless you look behind you," laughed Samuel, grabbing the wheel
with a practiced hand and squinting cheerfully up at the sun. "East
by southeast it'll be this voyage, Mates. There's ice in the North
Nonestic and I've a craving for tropical isles and the hidden rivers
of some deep and mysterious jungle!"

"Remember Snow Island?" smiled Ato, coming over to stand beside the
wheel.

"Shiver my shins! DO I? No more of that, me lads! But Ho! Isn't this
like old times?" Stretching up his arms exultingly, Samuel Salt let his
hands fall heavily on the wheel, and the great ship lifting with the
wind plunged her nose eagerly into the southeast swell.

"M--mmm! Like old times, except for the boy," agreed Ato slowly.

"Aye, and we'll surely miss Peter on this trip," sighed the Captain,
shaking his head regretfully. "Wonder where the little lubber is now?
That's the trouble with these real countries and peoples, there's no
getting at them when you need them most. Well, maybe we'll pick up
another hand somewhere to serve as cabin boy and keep us lively on the
voyage. But take a look at my sail controls, Ato. We can hoist, trim
and furl by just touching different buttons, nowadays; set this wheel
for any course and just let her ride."

"Splendid!" grunted Ato, rising reluctantly from a coil of rope. "But
since there are no buttons on my stove, I'd best be thinking about
dinner."

"Tar and tarpaulin, why didn't I have the Red Jinn fix you some?"
exclaimed the Pirate regretfully. "I'm sorry as a goat, Mate."

"Ho--I'm not," laughed Ato, waddling happily off toward his galley.
"That would have spoiled everything. What'll it be, Captain--a fried
sole, a broiled steak, or a roaring huge hot peppery meat pasty?"

"All of 'em!" yelled the Royal Explorer of Oz, exhaling his breath
in a mighty blast of anticipation. It seemed to Roger, high in the
foremast, that the ship gave an extra little skip at its Captain's
mighty roar, then settling easily into her usual graceful pace she ran
smoothly before the wind.




CHAPTER 3

The Fire Baby


Morning found the _Crescent Moon_ forging ahead with a stiff breeze, a
choppy sea and the last known island far behind her.

"Ahoy, and this is the life, Mates!" bellowed Samuel Salt, bracing his
legs against the pitch and roll of the vessel, and waving largely to
the ship's cook who sat on an overturned bucket mending his second best
sea shirt. "Anything can happen now!" Lovingly Samuel let his gaze rove
over the sparkling Nonestic, and Ato, squinting painfully as he pushed
his long needle in and out, nodded portentously.

"By the way, Sammy, what are your plans for this flag planting and
discovery business?" inquired the portly cook somewhat later. Having
finished his mending, he had dragged a canvas chair and a pot of
potatoes aft by the wheel. "Do you look for resistance and rebellion
when we start taking possession of this land and that land for the
crown of Oz?"

"No, no, nothing like that," mused Samuel, removing his pipe and
blowing a cloud of smoke into the rigging. "Everything's to be polite
and peaceable this voyage. No guns, knives or scimiters. Queen Ozma
particularly does not want any country taken by force or against its
will."

"And suppose they object to being taken at all?" said Ato, beginning to
pare a fat potato. "What then?"

"Well, then--er then--" Samuel rubbed his chin reflectively, "we'll try
persuasion, my lad. We'll explain all the advantages of coming under
the flag and protection of a powerful country like Oz. That ought to
get them, don't you think?"

"Yes, if they don't get us first," observed Ato, popping a potato
dubiously into the pot. "Suppose while we stand there waving flags and
persuading, some of these wild fellows have at us with spears, clubs
and poison arrows?"

"Well, that would be extremely unfortunate," admitted Samuel, glancing
soberly at the compass, "and in that case----"

"I hope you will remember you were once a pirate and act accordingly,"
Ato blew out his cheeks sternly as he spoke. "The one trouble with you,
Sammy, is that you take too long to get mad. So I shall go ashore armed
as usual with my kitchen knife and blunderbuss. I don't intend to be
sliced into sandwiches while you're talking through your three-cornered
hat, and waving flags at a lot of ignorant savages. And I'll have Roger
carry the books ashore too."

"Ho, ho!" roared the Captain of the _Crescent Moon_, giving his knee
a great slap. "Just like old times, Ato. Rough, bluff and relentless,
Mates, remember?"

"Aye, and I should say I do. And I remember Roger had to drop a good
many books on your head before you got mad enough to fight. What
makes you so calm and peaceable, Sammy? A big born fighting man like
yourself."

"Sea life, I reckon," answered the former Pirate, extending his brawny
arms in a huge yawn. "The sea's so much bigger than a man, Mate--it
rather makes him realize how small and unimportant he really is. But
don't fret, Cook dear, no one shall tread on your toes, this voyage.
But avast there--it grows warmer and the air smells a bit thunderish.
Had you noticed?"

"'Hoy, 'hoy! Deck ahoy!" bawled a shrill voice from above. "Island
astern." Both Samuel and Ato stared up in amazement, for Roger was
supposed to be resting in the cabin. But the Read Bird, after
snatching an hour's nap, had slipped out an open port and, unnoticed,
taken his position in the foremast. The Read Bird did not trust Ato,
who was supposed to be on watch. Besides, he wanted to be the first to
report a new island to the Captain.

"Looks like a mountain," mumbled Ato, setting down his potatoes and
waddling over to the rail. "Heave to, Skipper, here's our first
discovery."

"Now how in sixes did that get by me?" muttered Samuel Salt, hurrying
to shorten sail for the zigzag course, back and in, he would have to
take to reach the island at all.

It showed plainly enough now, a rugged gray and purple mass of rock,
with apparently no vegetation or dwellings of any kind. As the
_Crescent Moon_ drew nearer, the sea became smooth and oily, and the
air sulphurous and hot.

"Think likely this is an island we might well pass by," murmured Ato,
peering critically through his telescope. "Positively deserted so far
as I can see--but there might be valuable minerals in those rocks."

"Don't doubt it!" Samuel Salt curved himself all the way round the
wheel in his interest. Mechanical devices were well enough for the open
sea, but Samuel preferred to handle his own ship on occasions like
this. As there was no harbor or safe place to put in, he decided to
anchor off shore and land in the jolly boat. The anchor had just gone
clanking and rattling over the side when a horrid hiss and boom from
the center of the island made all hands look up in alarm.

"K-kkk cannons!" quavered Ato, dropping his bread knife with a clatter.
"Stand by to man the guns!"

But Samuel Salt, instead of heeding the cook's warning, began to sniff
the air. "Volcano, Mates," announced the Captain calmly. "And in that
case we may be a bit close for comfort. Still, I've always wanted
to observe a volcano in action. I've a theory there may be living
creatures in the center."

"Living creatures in the center!" raged Ato, tearing off his white
apron and dashing it on the deck. "How long will we be living if that
fire pot starts boiling? We mayn't be killed, being of magic birth, but
we can be jolly well singed, fried, boiled and melted. And after that
who'd care to be alive? Quick, Roger, heave in on that chain! Anchors
aweigh!"

While Samuel stood in rapt contemplation of the volcano, and Ato began
frantically winding up the anchor, a long tongue of flame leaped out
of the crater and a great jet of bubbling lava shot clear over the
_Crescent Moon_. This occurrence soon brought Samuel out of his revery,
and snapping into action and forgetting all about his mechanical
devices, he began working like a mad man to get the ship in motion,
tugging at the sheets, throwing his whole weight against the halyards,
till the ship with quivering sail sped away like a frightened bird, the
hot winds from the volcano whistling and rattling through her rigging.

"Where's Roger?" yelled Ato, staggering across the deck with two
buckets of water. "Oh, woe! Is he a Read Bird or a just plain Goose?
Look yonder, Sammy, he's flown ashore." Outlined against the sky in
a sudden flare from the volcano they could see Roger poised over the
center of the smoking island. In his claw was a large rippling banner
of Oz and as they looked he lifted the banner high above his head and
flung it straight into the center of the boiling crater.

"We hereby take complete and absolute possession of this island and
declare all its inhabitants lawful subjects of her Majesty, Queen Ozma
of Oz!" screamed Roger hysterically.

"Well, hurray, and three cheers for a real Explorer!" shouted Samuel
Salt. "He's done it all by himself, the only man among us who
remembered his duty under fire. There's a bird for you, Mates. Not even
a volcano can turn him from his duty. All we thought of was safety.
Poh!" Rubbing the back of his hand across his eyes, which were full of
smoke, Samuel looked glumly across at his cook.

"Now, now, don't be too hard on yourself," puffed the King, setting
down the fire buckets. "A Captain must think of his ship, even if he
is an Explorer. Besides, having wings gives Roger an advantage of us.
Still and all, it was a brave and timely act." Ato's further remarks
were drowned out in a second tremendous explosion. Sky and sea turned
red, whole flaming boulders shot above the ship's spars, while great
sullen waves of lava boiled over the crater's edge and rolled smoking
and hissing into the sea.

"Missed us again," panted Samuel Salt, hanging desperately to his wheel
as the _Crescent Moon_ plunged and pitched in the angry seas. "Wonder
what started that?"

"The Oz flag, probably," gasped Ato, feeling around in the dense smoke
for his fire buckets. "Hope Roger got off safely. Where is that fool
bird? Ho, Sammy! Hi, Sammy! Quick, they've hit us amidships."

Hastily setting his mechanical steering gear, the former Pirate rushed
forward to where a glowing lump of lava was burning its way slowly but
surely through the deck.

"Fire! Fire!" shrilled Roger, who had dropped down on the rail
unnoticed in the smoke and confusion. "Water, Ato! Water, you old Slow
Poke!"

"Avast!" puffed Samuel Salt, staring down in astonishment at the
glowing lump at his feet. "It's alive, Mates, and lively as a grig.
It's a FIRE baby, that's what! HAH! Didn't I just say there was life on
a volcano? Well, this proves it and I'm taking this young one along for
proof."

"Now stop talking like a book and act like a seaman," choked Ato, in
his agitation tripping over a rope but still managing to keep his hold
on the water buckets. "Fire baby or not, can't you see it's burning a
hole in the deck, you seventh son of a sea-going Jackass? Here, put it
out! Dash this water over it before it burns up the whole ship!"

"Avast! Avast and belay!" roared Samuel Salt in a terrible voice as Ato
raised his bucket. "I'm still Captain here. Do you wish to destroy a
rare specimen of volcanic life? Fetch a shovel from the hold, Roger. A
shovel, I said, and don't stand there dithering."

"Aye aye, sir!" sputtered the Read Bird, half falling and half flying
down the companionway. Now a bird is a quick and handy fellow about a
ship and in half the time it would have taken a seaman, Roger was back
with a long handled shovel. Snatching the shovel, which he had often
used on former treasure hunts, Samuel scooped up the bawling fire baby
and started on a run for the galley.

"It's turning black, it's turning black," wailed the disconsolate
collector, crooning to the ugly infant as he ran along as if he were
its own mother. "Aye, aye--it's going out!"

"And a good thing, too," panted Ato, who was close behind him. "What in
tarry barrels are you fixing to do with it, Sammy?"

Roger, sensible bird that he was, stayed long enough to douse the two
buckets of water on the smoking deck, then he, too, made a bee line for
the galley. He was just in time to see Samuel lift the lid of the range
and slide the baby down on top of the hot coals. No sooner had the
squat infant touched the glowing fire than it stopped yelling at once
and began to purr and sing like a teakettle set on to boil.

"Well, I'll be swizzled!" gulped Ato, and snatching a wet dish towel
from the rack, he wound it round and round his aching head. "Whatever
made you think of that?"

"It's my scientific mind," the Pirate told them blandly. "The proper
place for any infant that size is bed and I naturally figured that
a fire baby belonged in a fire bed, and a bed of hot coals was the
nearest to it, so here it is!" Winking solemnly at Roger, who was
regarding the little Lavaland Islander with fear and loathing, Samuel
picked up the poker and gave the baby an affectionate poke. "It'll do
fine here," he predicted happily, "and prove beyond a quibble that
volcanos are inhabited."

"It'll do nothing of the sort!" exploded Ato, bringing his fat fist
down with a resounding thump on the drain board. "You may be the
Captain of the ship, Sammy, but I'm the boss of this galley, and that
fire baby will have to go. GO! Do you understand? How'm I to cook with
the ugly little monster lolling all over the fire bed and like as not
falling into the soup when my back is turned?"

"Hark!" interrupted Roger. "More trouble! Something's up, Master Salt,
and it's not an eruption either." And Samuel had to agree with him as
groans, moans, shrieks and hisses came whistling after the flying ship.

"Ah, that'll be the rest of them!" exulted the Royal Discoverer,
pounding out on deck. "Hah! It's the Lavaland Islanders themselves.
Ho--this WILL be interesting!"

"Well, just invite them over and we'll all burn up happily together,"
suggested Ato bitterly.

Hanging over the taffrail, Samuel paid no attention to the King's
sarcastic suggestion. Indeed, he was much too interested, for just
showing above the flaming circle of the volcano's crater was a row
of immense and thunderous looking natives. They were of transparent
rock-like structure and burned and glowed from the molten lava that
coursed through their veins. With upraised arms and furious faces they
were yelling over and over some strange and indistinguishable threats
and phrases. One, shaking the blackened stick of the Oz flag, danced
and screamed louder than all the rest put together.

"They do not wish to become subjects of Oz, I take it," sighed Samuel,
undecided whether to sail back and argue the matter, or sail away and
save his ship from possible destruction.

"That's not it! That's not it!" cried Roger, flapping his wings
triumphantly. "I know what's the matter. They want that baby back.
You're probably making off with the Crown Prince of the Volcano. See
that woman yelling louder than the others and holding out both arms?
Well, look--she has a crown on her head and is likely the Queen. She
wants her baby back."

"And she should have it, too," stated Ato, blinking his eyes at the
frightful racket the Lavaland Islanders were making. "You can't steal
people's children like this, Sammy, unless you're going back to
buccaneering. It's just plain piracy."

"She threw it at us, didn't she?" muttered the Captain, who was
unwilling to part with so valuable a specimen.

"It probably blew out of its cradle when the volcano erupted. Give it
back to her, Sammy," begged Ato, who was determined to get rid of the
terrible infant at any cost. "After all, she's its mother."

"But do you expect me to sail back there and endanger all of our
lives?" Samuel jerked his head angrily. "And how else can it be done?"

"Er--er--let Roger carry it back in that old wire basket we use for
clams," proposed the cook eagerly.

"Not on your life," protested Roger in a sulky voice. "The basket would
grow red hot and burn my bill. Besides, I'm no stork. Tell you what we
could do, though, and we'd better be quick before they start throwing
things."

"What?" inquired the Captain, gazing uneasily at the infuriated
Islanders.

"Why, simply shoot it back," Roger said calmly. "Stuff it in the port
cannon and blaze away. You never miss your mark, Master Salt, and if
you can't shoot that baby back into its mother's arms, I'll walk on my
wings and be done with it."

"Why, Roger, how clever! The very thing!" rejoiced Ato. "I'll go fetch
it with the fire tongs and you'll have to hurry, Sammy, or we'll be out
of range."

"But it might injure the young one," objected the Captain of the
_Crescent Moon_, shifting his feet uncomfortably.

"Nonsense, it'll be just like a ride in a baby carriage for that little
rascal. Prime your gun, Sammy, while I get the child."

By this time the clamor from the Island had become so alarming that
even Samuel realized something would have to be decided. So, somewhat
mollified by Roger's compliment on his aim, he made ready to fire the
port cannon. The baby, hissing lustily, was brought without accident
from the galley. Ato held it gingerly before him, using the fire
tongs, Roger following along to hold a lighted candle under the little
fellow to keep him from going out before he was shot.

The baby fitted nicely into the cannon's mouth and stopped crying
instantly. At the last moment Samuel almost lost his courage, but urged
on to action by both Ato and Roger, he carefully made his calculations
and then shutting both eyes pulled the cord that set off the gun. The
terrible explosion shocked the Lavalanders into silence, and almost
afraid to look, Samuel opened his eyes.

"Yo, ho, ho! Three cheers for the Skipper!" squealed Ato, snatching
the towel from his head and waving it like a banner. "The neatest shot
you ever made, Mate, and a lucky shot, too." The baby and the cannon
ball which would have shattered a less durable lady had struck the Lava
Queen amidships. Dropping the cannon ball carelessly into the crater,
the giantess clasped her child in her arms, smiling and screaming her
thanks across the tumbling waters.

"Well, was I right, or was I right?" chuckled Roger, teetering backward
and forward on the rail and preening his feathers self-consciously.
"And I've another idea just as good in case you should be interested."

"Oh, keep it till tomorrow," grumbled Samuel Salt, who felt terribly
depressed at the loss of his rare specimen.

"But tomorrow will be too late," persisted Roger, settling on the
Captain's shoulder. "Now, while these savages are in a good humor, let
me fly over and drop another Oz flag on the Island. Maybe this time
they'll let it stand and once it flies over the crater the Island is
Ozma's."

"By the tooth of a harpooned whale, you're right! I'm forgetting my
duty to Oz," breathed Samuel, straightening up purposefully. "But our
kind of flag won't stand the climate yonder."

The Read Bird, however, had thought even of that. Taking a sheet of
iron from the hold, the resourceful fellow stopped in the galley long
enough to burn in the word OZ with the red hot poker. Then, thrusting
the poker itself through two slits in his iron banner, he flew jauntily
back to the Island.

"Ahoy, and there's a standard bearer for you!" Rubbing his hands
together, Samuel strode to the rail. "Bless my buttons, the boy
deserves a medal for this, and shall have one, too."

This time the Lavaland Islanders watched Roger's approach with quiet
interest and as he hovered uncertainly over their heads held up their
hands for the iron flag. But Roger, made daring by their friendliness,
swooped down suddenly to the crater's edge, and jamming his banner
between two smoking boulders soared aloft.

"Lavaland Islanders!" screamed the Read Bird hoarsely. "You are now
under the protection and rule of Queen Ozma of Oz. Lavaland Islanders,
you are hereby adjured to keep the peace and the law and LAV one
another!"

His voice cracked from fright and excitement, but finishing
triumphantly, he spread his wings and skimmed back to the _Crescent
Moon_.

"Hung wung wah HEEE!" yelled the Islanders all together, nodding their
heads and waving their arms cheerfully. "Hung wung wah HEEE!"




CHAPTER 4

Samuel's First Specimen


"What do you make of that?" puffed Samuel Salt as Roger dropped
breathlessly down on his shoulder. "Well, 'Hung wung wah HEEE!' it is.
Let's give them a cheer for luck." Lifting his great voice, the Royal
Discoverer for Oz, helped out by his two shipmates, sent the weird call
booming back across the water.

An answering call came from the Island, and then, with a hiss and thud,
a small glowing object fell on the deck. Fortunately the fire tongs
were still handy and picking up the offending object before it could do
any damage, Ato marched sternly off to the galley. Stopping long enough
for another wave to the Island, which was growing smaller and smaller
as the _Crescent Moon_ sped away, Samuel hastened after his cook,
jotting down hurried notes in his journal as to latitude and longitude
as he ran along.

"There's something written on this piece of lava," announced Ato, who
had dropped the smoking souvenir from Lavaland on the stove. Peering
over his shoulder, Samuel could see queer raised symbols and signs on
the sulphurous surface of the rock.

"There's something crawling on it, too," volunteered Roger, who was
perched on the towel rack above the stove, and had a better view, "a
golden frog or a lizard."

"Merciful mustard! What next?" groaned Ato.

"Why, this--this--" Samuel's voice quivered with excitement and
disbelief, "this, Mates, is as fine a specimen of a Preoztoric Monster
as a scientist could hope for; a real live salamander, a fire lizard,
straight from the burning depths of yonder crater. Stars! Tar and
Tarrybarrels! This is even better than the baby and will prove my point
just as well."

"Does it have to live on my stove?" asked Ato ominously, as the
Salamander slid merrily backward and forward over the red hot plates of
the range. "Home on the range!" snickered Roger, winking at the Pirate.

"Just till I can fix up a hot box for it," apologized Samuel, "but
don't fret, old Toff, it doesn't bite and if it falls on the floor, all
you have to do is scoop it up and put it back before it goes out."

"Not only cook, mate and swab, but now I'm nursemaid to a fire lizard."
Ato shuddered, and reaching for his tall cook's cap, jammed it down
hard on his shiny bald head.

"You can keep it in an iron pot while you cook," suggested Roger
practically, "and after all, King dear, it's the only Salamander in
captivity. Here, Sally, here Sal--this way, my little crater critter."
Tilting the pot on the back of the stove, Roger was delighted to find
the Salamander quite willing to answer to her new name. As she slid
adventurously into the small cooking vessel, the Read Bird quickly
righted the pot and clapped on the cover. "There," he exclaimed with a
satisfied nod at his Master, "how's that?"

"Well, I suppose I'll have to put up with it," sighed Ato resignedly.
"But in some ways pirating was easier than discovering, Sammy. At
least, we never kept the captives on the stove. And NOW--" Ato waved
his arms determinedly. "Clear out, both of you. It's three bells and
time to stir up the food. And just take that pesky rock along with you.
I've meat to broil!"

"When this cools, maybe I'll be able to figure out the language,"
exulted Samuel, removing the offending piece of lava with a cake
turner. "All in all, a most interesting and profitable day, eh, Roger?
An island, a visit from a fire baby, and a real live Preoztoric
monster."

"Not bad," agreed the Read Bird, transferring himself to the Captain's
shoulder. Depositing the piece of lava on an iron hatchway to cool,
Samuel strode happily along the deck, stopping to light the red lamps
on the port and the green lights on the starboard. Roger himself had
just hung a white light in the rigging when a lusty call from the
galley sent him flying off to help Ato serve the dinner.

"What could be cozier than a life at sea?" he reflected, winging
jauntily into the main cabin with a dish of roast potatoes. Ato puffed
cheerfully behind, bearing a huge tray. On the tray a steaming tureen
of soup, a pot of coffee, seven dishes of vegetables and two of smoking
meats sent up tantalizing whiffs and fragrances. Later when the Read
Bird brought in the pudding, he and Sammy soberly agreed it was the
tastiest feast Ato had served on the voyage.

The main cabin of the _Crescent Moon_, with its red leather couches
under the ports, its easy chairs and tables clamped to the floor to
keep them from shifting, with its ship's clock and ship's lanterns,
was a cheery place to be when the day's work was ended. There was a
huge fireplace for foggy evenings and every visible space on the wall
was covered with pictures of pirate ships, ancient sailing vessels and
rough maps and charts of strange and curious islands. While Samuel
and Ato sat at their ease to finish off the pudding, Roger took his
upon the wing, darting in and out between bites to assure himself that
all was well on deck. There was a tiny crescent moon sliding down the
sky, and the slap of waves against the side of the ship and the wind
creaking in the cordage made as pleasant a tune as the heart of a
seaman could wish for.

"Now what could be better than this?" said Samuel Salt exhaling a cloud
of smoke from his pipe and stretching his legs luxuriously under the
long table. "A tidy ship, a good wind and the whole wide sea to sail
on."

"Suits me!" grinned Ato scraping up the last of the hard sauce and
settling back with a grunt of sheer content. "Did you mark up our
volcano on the chart Sammy, and what are we calling it Mates? An island
must have a name you know."

"I know." Samuel blew another cloud of smoke upward and cleared his
throat. "If it's agreeable to all hands and Roger, I'd like to call it
Salamander Island after Sally."

"Why not? There's a Sally in our galley and a real nice gal is Sally,"
warbled Roger, settling on the back of Samuel's chair and wagging his
head in time to the music.

"Sing like a bird, don't ye?" muttered Samuel striding over to the map
of Oz and surrounding countries and oceans that covered the west wall.

"I AM a bird," screamed Roger fluttering up to his shoulder. "'Bout
here she would lie, Master Salt, sixty leagues from Octagon Island."

As Roger talked on, making numerous suggestions, the Captain of the
_Crescent Moon_ drew with red chalk a small but effective picture
of Salamander Island showing the volcano in action and the Lavaland
Islanders grouped around the crater's top.

"Taken this day without a shot or the loss of a single man," printed
Samuel in neat letters under his sketch.

"Don't forget, you shot the baby," twittered Roger raising a claw
argumentatively.

"Oh, we can't put in small details like that," sniffed the Captain
stepping back to admire his drawing.

"Seems odd for us to be discovering and taking possession of islands
for a country we know so little about," mused Ato, looking thoughtfully
at the map on the west wall. "Why, we've only been to Oz once
ourselves."

"Yes, but everybody knows about Oz," Samuel said putting the red chalk
back in the table drawer. "Our business is with wild new countries
that have never been seen or heard of. Besides, anyone can see that Oz
is overpopulated and needs new territories and sea ports. And since
Ozma is so clever at governing, and her subjects all so happy and
prosperous, the more people who come under her rule the better!"

"Aye! Aye!" agreed Roger, peering with deep interest at the map. Small
wonder the Read Bird was interested, for Oz is one of the most exciting
and enchanting countries ever discovered. There are four large Kingdoms
in Ozma's realm, the Northern Land of the Gillikens, the Eastern Empire
of the Winkies, the Southern Country of the Quadlings and the Western
domain of the Munchkins. Each forms a triangle in the oblong of Oz. The
Emerald City which is the capital, is in the exact center where all
these triangles meet. Each of these Kingdoms has its own ruler, but
all four are under the sovereign rule and control of Ozma, the small
but powerful fairy who lives in the Emerald City. On all sides, Oz is
surrounded by a deadly desert and beyond the desert lie the independent
Kingdoms of No-Land, Low Land, Ix, Play, Ev, the Dominions of the
Gnome King, and many other strange and important Principalities. These
countries form a narrow rim around the desert, and beyond this rim lies
the Nonestic Ocean itself, stretching in all directions and to no one
knows what far and undiscovered shores. Each of the four Kingdoms in
Oz shown on Samuel's map was so dotted with smaller Kingdoms, cities,
towns, villages and the holdings of ancient Knights and Barons, there
was scarcely room for another castle. With young Princes growing up on
every hand, Roger could well sympathize with the need of Ozma for more
territory.

"Won't the Ozians have too long a way to come before they reach these
new islands and countries we discover?" inquired the Read Bird, after
staring at the map for some moments in silence.

"Not a bit of it!" Samuel dismissed Roger's objection with a snap of
his fingers. "I hear the Wizard of Oz is working on a new fleet of
airships, that will make crossing the desert and Nonestic a real lark
and enable new settlers to reach these outlying islands in a day or
less. So all we have to do is to proceed with our discovering. Ozma
will attend to the rest. This volcanic island may not be as useful as
some of the others, but one can never tell. How about picking up a few
islands for you, Ato, as we ride along?" The former pirate dropped his
arm affectionately round the shoulders of his Royal Cook.

"No, thanks," grunted Ato, rolling cheerfully to his feet. "One's
enough. What would I want with any more islands? Why I'd never get off
on a voyage. But pick yourself a couple, Sammy, why don't you?"

"Who, ME?" Samuel Salt shook his head emphatically. "A ship's all I
can handle and I wouldn't trade you two buckets of sea water for all
the islands in the Nonestic. One ship and one crew's enough for me,
and since you're my crew, you'd better turn in--we've had a hard day
and another one coming. I'll take first watch, Cooky, here, shall have
middle, and you Roger can be the early bird on morning watch."

"Ho hum! I'm right sleepy at that," admitted Ato, starting to heap up
plates. "Give me a lift with the dishes, Roger, will you?"

"Oh, throw 'em overboard," directed Samuel Salt recklessly. "There's
plenty more in the hold and I'm agin all extry labor."

"Hurray!" screamed Roger seizing the coffee pot and winging merrily
through an open port.

"Avast! Avast there! Not my coffee pot!" pleaded Ato, making after the
Read Bird with surprising speed considering his tonnage. "Stop you
great Gossoon! How many times must I tell you I'm boss of the galley?"
Catching Roger by the leg just as he reached the rail, Ato snatched
back his precious coffee pot and hugged it protectively to his bosom.
"Why I've just got this contraption broken in proper," he panted
indignantly. "A coffee pot's like a pipe, it's got to be sweetened and
seasoned. Heave over the plates and cups if you like," he went on,
relenting a bit as he noted the keen disappointment on Roger's face,
"but save the soup tureen. I'll wager there's not another that size on
the ship and the Captain must have his soup. What a splendid pot of
soup THIS would make," murmured Ato looking dreamily down at the sea,
"a bit salty, perhaps, but full of snapper and porgy and tender young
sea shoots. Why that foam's as near to whipping cream as anything I've
ever gazed on."

Tearing himself reluctantly from the appetizing sight, the Royal Cook
padded off to put the galley in order for the night, while Roger with
loud squalls of glee dropped the plates and saucers one by one over
the side. In this way the dishes were soon done, the cabin tidy and
shipshape, and by eight bells the King and the Read Bird were sleeping
soundly and Samuel Salt had the ship to himself.

First, he made a complete round of all decks, glanced at the barometer
and compass, and furled the fore and mizzen topsails. Then he took the
cooled piece of lava down to the hold. The strange signs and symbols
had hardened, and labeling it carefully with the date and name of
Salamander Island, Samuel placed it on his shelves for further study.
Then returning to the main deck he set a portable ship's lantern on
a coil of rope and settled down to fix a hot box for the Salamander.
Selecting from the material he had brought from the hold an iron box
with a glass lid, he covered the bottom with sand and pebbles. Knowing
salamanders require hot water as well as hot air, he placed a tiny
flat pan of water in the corner of the box to serve as a swimming
pool. A burning glass in the day time and an alcohol lamp under the
box at night would supply the necessary heat, and setting the whole
contrivance on an iron tray in the cabin, Samuel went joyfully off to
fetch the fire lizard.

The Salamander was still in the pot on the back of the stove, and
giving her an experimental poke with his finger, Samuel was astonished
to find her quite cool to the touch. This was surprising considering
she could only live in the most intense heat. But without stopping to
figure it out, the Captain picked her up between thumb and forefinger,
carried her to the cabin and popped her into the iron box. He had
already lighted the lamp under the box so that everything was red
hot and cozy for her. The small captive seemed to appreciate her new
quarters, wriggling over the hot pebbles and sand, then splashing gaily
in her swimming pool.

"Quite a girl!" sighed the pirate, resting his elbows on the table and
gazing happily down at the first prize of the voyage. "You're going
to be great company for me, Sally." As if she really understood, the
lizard gave a squeak and tapped loudly on the glass lid with her
tail. The pipe almost dropped from Samuel's mouth at Sally's strange
behavior, and lifting the lid he peered inquisitively down at her.
Before he had a chance to clap it shut, the Salamander hurled herself
upward, landing smartly on the bridge of the Pirate's nose, from where
she slid cleverly into the pipe itself.

"Well I'll be scuppered!" gasped the Royal Explorer looking slightly
cross-eyed down the bridge of his nose as Sally coiled up comfortably
in the bowl of the pipe. "The little rascal wants to keep me company,
and so she shall, bless my boots, so she shall! Why this is plumb
cute and cozy and something to write in my journal." Puffing away
delightedly Samuel stepped out of the cabin and all during his watch,
the little Salamander rested contentedly in his pipe. Sometimes she
peered up inquisitively over the edge, but mostly she lay quietly on
the smoking tobacco, looking with calm interest at the sky and the
rippling sails over her head. Not only did she keep his pipe from going
out, but never had it drawn so well. So, filled with a vast wonder
and content, Samuel strode up and down the deck. Not till midnight
when he roused Ato could he bear to put Sally back in her box and only
then, after he had promised her another ride in the morning. But when
morning came, Samuel had no time to keep his promise, for while Ato was
cooking breakfast and the Captain himself catching forty winks in the
cabin, the raucous voice of the Read Bird came whistling down from the
foremast.

"Land Ho! Land! More Land. Island tuluward, Captain!"




CHAPTER 5

Patrippany Island


"All hands on deck! Come on! Come _on_!" yelled Samuel Salt running
past Ato's galley dragging on his clothes as he ran. "There's an island
tuluward, you lubber."

"Well, 'tain't a flying island is it?" Ato stuck a very red face out
the door. "I guess it'll stay there till I turn the bacon, won't it? No
cause to burn the biscuits just 'cause an island's sighted is there?"
But in spite of his pretended indifference, the ship's cook shoved
all his pans on the back of the stove and hurried out on deck. "Rich
and jungly, this one," he observed, resting his arms comfortably on
the rail, "and from what I can see a good place to grow bananas and
whiskers. Look, Sammy, even the trees have beards."

"Moss," muttered Samuel Salt striding over to the wheel. "Fly ashore
Roger and see whether there's a good place to put in."

Twittering with importance and curiosity, the Read Bird flung himself
into the air. In ten minutes he was back to report a wide river cutting
through the center of the island from end to end. The foliage was so
dense, Roger had not been able to discover any signs of habitation, but
after viewing the mouth of the river through his glasses, the Captain
decided to take a chance, and sail through.

"Now, Sammy, let's not do anything hasty," begged the ship's cook
lifting his floury hands in warning, "nor try to conquer a country on
an empty stomach. This may be an important island, so after we eat, let
us put on our proper clothes and plant the Oz flags with dignity and
decorum."

"Spoken like a King and a seaman," approved Samuel Salt, "and if my eye
does not deceive me, I'll have the ship in the river as soon as you
have the coffee in the pot. Then we'll ride in with the tide, put on
our discovering togs and proceed with the business of the day."

So while Ato returned to his galley and the Read Bird to his post in
the foremast, Samuel swung the _Crescent Moon_ in toward the island.
Each felt a slight twinge of uneasiness as the ship left the open sea
and began to slip rapidly up the broad new and unnavigated jungle
stream. Vine covered trees pressed close to the banks, and birds and
monkeys in the branches kept up an incessant screech and chattering. A
flock of greedy pelicans flopped comically after the ship and as they
penetrated deeper and deeper into the jungle it almost seemed as if
they were entering some dim green land of goblins.

"A fine target we make for anyone who cares to shoot at us," moaned
Ato, as he waddled backward and forward between the cabin and galley
with cups and covered dishes. "Ugh!"

"Yes, I wouldn't be surprised to feel an arrow in my back any minute
now," assented Samuel Salt brightly, "though I must say I'd much prefer
a fried mackerel in my stomach."

"Come on then," shuddered Ato, in no wise cheered by Samuel's remarks,
"breakfast's ready and we may as well eat before we die."

"Now never say die!" roared the Royal Explorer of Oz, touching the
buttons to furl sail and yelling to Roger to let go the anchor.
"Never say die--say dee--dee-scovery is our aim and purpose, Mates.
Dee-scovery with a _hi de di dide di dough_!" sang Samuel vociferously
to keep up his own spirits. Finally with the ship motionless amidstream
the three shipmates sat down to breakfast. Their nerves were tense and
their ears cocked for signs of approaching natives, but except for the
noise of the birds and monkeys and the occasional splash of some river
creature, there was no sound to indicate the ship had been sighted by
the islanders.

"Nobody's home," concluded Samuel, finishing off his third cup of
coffee at one toss and hurrying off to his cabin. Roger, having only
Oz flags and no shore togs to bother him, generously offered to clear
away the dishes and amused himself by throwing scraps and the rest of
the biscuits to the pelicans. He had just tossed over the last biscuit
when Ato appeared in a grand satin coat and breeches, long cape and
three-cornered hat. The elegance of his apparel was somewhat marred by
the bread board he had belted round his middle and the bread knife
and blunderbuss he had stuck through his sash.

"Ha, hah!" roared Samuel Salt, giving the bread board a resounding
whack. "Something to stay your stomach, EH?" Samuel himself was as
stylishly attired as the King, his three-cornered hat at a dashing
angle. Under his arm he had two pairs of tremendously long stilts. "No
need for us to get all grubby lowering the boat. We'll wade ashore this
time," explained Samuel as Ato's eyes grew round and questioning. "Easy
as walking on crutches; just watch me, Mate."

Now Samuel, it must be confessed, had been practicing stilting on Elbow
Island, so naturally it came easy to him. First he put his stilts over
the side, then vaulting the rail, he seized the tops and settled his
feet in the cross pieces at one jump and started walking calmly up and
down gleefully calling for Ato to follow. It all looked so simple, Ato
handed the basket of lunch he had packed to Roger, and seizing his
stilts began anxiously feeling around for the river bottom. Satisfied
that it was solid, he climbed boldly up on the rail.

"That's it! That's it!" applauded Samuel. "Now grab the tops, Mate, and
start coming."

"Chee tree--tee--hee--!" screeched the monkeys derisively as Ato clung
precariously to the rail with one hand and maneuvered his stilts with
the other. By some miracle of balance the fat King actually managed
to mount and hold on to his perilous walking sticks. Then with a long
quivering breath he heaved one forward. He was about to take another
step when a desperate scream from Roger almost caused him to topple
over backwards.

"'Gators!" croaked the Read Bird, beating his wings together violently.
"Watch out for those 'gators."

"Why bother him with gaiters at a time like this? They look perfectly
all right to me." Samuel Salt frowned up at Roger.

"Not _his_ gaiters, river 'gators, alligators, CROCODILES!" wailed
Roger, beginning to fly in agonized circles. "Crocodiles and WORSE."

Samuel, eyeing what he had supposed to be a pile of rotten logs on the
river bank, saw dozens of the slimy saurians slide into the water and
come savagely toward them.

"Back to the ship! Back to the ship!" babbled the Read Bird, clutching
Ato's collar with a frantic claw. But the King was too frightened to
move. The sight of the bleary-eyed river monsters made him tremble so
violently his stilts twittered and swayed like trees in a hurricane. He
could not for the life of him take a step in either direction. With a
loud cry Samuel started to help him, but a crocodile reached Ato first.
Its jaws closed with a vicious snap on the King's left stilt and with a
heart-rending shriek Ato plunged into the slimy river.

"There, there! Now you've done it!" sobbed Roger. "Fed the kindest soul
who ever served a ship's company to a parcel of crocodiles!" Dropping
the Oz flags and lunch basket, he made an unsuccessful grab for his
Master's arm. But even if he had caught it, Ato's great weight would
have pulled them both under, and now only a circle of bubbles showed
where the luckless explorer had disappeared. Firing his blunderbuss
to frighten off the rest of the crocodiles, Samuel, striking left and
right with his stilts, propelled himself forward, while Roger pecked
futilely at the monster that had felled his Master. But just as Samuel,
after boldly driving off the dragon-like creature, prepared to dive in
and save Ato or perish with him, a dripping head appeared above the
water.

"Thank you. Thank you very much!" murmured a mild voice. "I haven't
had as nice a present as this since I was an itty bitty baby. Now what
can I do for YOU?" Neither Samuel nor Roger could speak a word, for
where the King had gone down, a tremendous hippopotamus was coming
up, the lunch basket hanging carelessly out of a corner of its mouth.
For a wild moment Samuel thought his enormous friend and shipmate had
been transformed by some witchcraft into this ponderous beast. He even
imagined he caught an expression of Ato's in the monster's moist eye.
But this gloomy idea was soon dispelled, for, as the creature rose
higher out of the water, they could see a desperate and bedraggled
figure sprawled across its slippery back.

"Ahoy, Mate!" choked Samuel, his heart thumping like a trip hammer. "Is
it really you? Are you safe, then?"

"Safe!" quavered the half-drowned and mud-covered King of the Octagon
Isle. "SAFE?" He peered dizzily at the churning crocodiles just a
boat's length away, and his voice cracked and broke. "I never felt
safer in my life. What am I riding, a whale or an elephant?"

"A river horse," explained the hippopotamus, looking kindly over her
shoulder. Then, as the crocodiles began to hiss and roar and come
rolling toward them, she gave a ferocious bellow and snort. "Away with
you! Be off, you river scum!" she squealed viciously. "These travelers
are MINE. Shoot your fire stick, Master Long Legs. That will fix them."
For a moment the crocodiles held their post, then, as Samuel fired his
gun repeatedly, they began to slide sullenly across the river to the
opposite bank. "Hold fast, Master Short Legs, and I'll soon have you
ashore," wheezed the hippopotamus, speaking out of the corner of her
mouth so as not to drop the picnic basket.

"Yes, yes, but what then?" shuddered Ato, trying to get a finger hold
on the monster's slippery neck.

"Why, then, we'll both tell our stories, and after that I'll eat,"
snorted the river horse, paddling joyously toward the bank.

"You'll EAT!" groaned Ato, ready to roll back into the river. "Oh, my
father and mother and maiden aunts!"

"Did you hear that?" Dropping to Samuel's shoulder, Roger whispered
fiercely. "Quick now, a shot behind the ear, before it gets any
further. Are you going to do nothing while this ravenous monster
carries off my poor Master?"

"Sh-hh!" warned Samuel, holding up his finger. "These creatures do
not eat meat or men. They're herbivorous, my lad, and this one seems
uncommonly kind and friendly. But what puzzles me--" the Royal Explorer
looked intently into the face of the Read Bird. "What puzzles me is to
find this one talking our language. To my knowledge, only animals in
Oz, a few in Ev and you on the Octagon Isle have the gift of speech.
And I tell you, Mate, this is a valuable discovery, and a simply
splendid specimen of a pachydermatous talking aquatic." Whether the
last few words in this sentence or a stone in the river bottom tripped
up the Captain, Roger never knew, but without any warning Samuel turned
a sudden back somersault into the river, going under as completely as
Ato had done.

"Ugh--gr--ugh!" he gurgled, coming up full of mud and disgust. "How did
that happen?"

"Stilts!" sniffed Roger, whose wings had saved him from going down with
Samuel. "A splendid way to get ashore, Master Salt, so neat and tidy.
And a fine Discoverer you look now."

Sighing deeply, Samuel watched his stilts floating out of reach, then
shaking his head violently to get the water out of his eyes, he swam
thoughtfully after the hippopotamus. As he dragged himself up on the
bank, a monkey swinging by its tail from the lower branches of a tree
snatched his three-cornered hat and scittered all the way to the tree
top, at which all the other monkeys let out shrill hoots of mocking
merriment.

"Ah! The welcome committee!" sniffled Ato, rolling off the
hippopotamus. "Well, Sammy, wherever it is, here we are and a nice
mess you've made of the landing. Clothes ruined, weapons gone," (Ato
felt his middle dejectedly for his bread knife and blunderbuss), then
hitching up the bread board at his waist looked long and accusingly at
the Leader of the Expedition.

"Now you mustn't mind a little mud," said the hippopotamus, setting
down the picnic basket and gazing from one to the other with frank
interest and curiosity. "Mud is beautiful and SO healthy."

"Not for me," frowned Samuel Salt, endeavoring to remove the thick
green slime from his hair and ears with his damp silk handkerchief.
"But I suppose we'll dry off in time and--"

"Proceed with the business of the day," finished Ato sarcastically,
as he squeezed the water out of his silk pantaloons and coat tails.
"But I hope you don't mind my saying that a seaman should stick to
his boats, Samuel. If I had not fallen in with this kind and obliging
hippopotamus, I'd have been a crocodile's lunch by this time."

"Oh, I'd have got you out somehow," muttered Samuel, smoothing back his
hair sulkily. "And those stilts really saved your life. Suppose that
animal had bitten your leg instead of your stilt? By the way, what's
the name of this island, Mate?" Anxious to change the subject, Samuel
turned to Ato's tremendous rescueress.

"Mate?" repeated the hippopotamus, wiggling her ears inquiringly, "What
may that mean?"

"It is what a seaman calls his crew and his friends," explained Samuel,
grinning in spite of himself.

"Seaman? Mate?" mused the hippopotamus in a rapt voice. "How cozy, how
beautiful!" Overcome with emotion, the mighty monster leaned forward
and lapped up the picnic basket, Oz flags, lunch and everything.
"I shall remember this as long as I live," she assured them with a
gulp as one of the flags went sideways down her throat. "Nikobo,
Little Daughter of the Biggenlittle River People, bids you welcome to
Patrippany Island."

"Little daughter!" exclaimed Ato in a smothered voice. "Ha, ha!
Patrippany Island. Ho, ho! This is interesting. I knew there was a trip
in it somewhere, a wet trip for us, eh, Samuel?"

"But what I don't understand," said the Royal Explorer of Oz, briskly
massaging his beard with his handkerchief, "is how you happen to speak
our language. Do all the creatures on this Island talk? I don't mean
that monkey chatter above."

"No, none of the other creatures here speak the language of man,"
answered Nikobo solemnly. "I never knew I could speak it myself till
five moons ago last Herb Day."

"Herb Day? Dear, dear and dear! How confusing it all grows," sighed
Ato, emptying the water out of his hat which had somehow survived his
river ducking. "Do you suppose she means Thursday? Roger! ROGER! Keep
away from those monkeys. Do you wish to lose all your tail feathers?"

"Oh, it's all very simple," Nikobo rolled her eyes from side to side.
"One day I eat herbs and that is Herb Day. One day I eat twigs and that
is Twig Day, and one day I eat grass and that is Grass Day, and--"

"And one day you eat lunch baskets and Oz flags, and I suppose that
makes it Flag Day," chuckled Roger, coming down from a little
excursion in the tree tops. "She's swallowed the Oz flags, Skipper, and
if that doesn't make her a citizen of Oz, I'll eat my feathers."

"Go ahead, if it will keep you any quieter," said Samuel Salt, who did
not want this interesting conversation interrupted by Roger's nonsense.
"So you only began to speak our language five moons ago last Herb Day?
What made you do that?"

"A boy," confided Nikobo with a ponderous wag of her head.

"Ah, now we're getting somewhere." Feeling in his pocket, Samuel pulled
out a small note book and pencil, still damp but usable. "Was it a
native boy?" he asked eagerly.

"No, no, certainly NOT." The hippopotamus panted a little at the very
idea of such a thing. "The Leopard Men speak a strange roaring language
I have never been able to make head or tail of. Besides, to speak to
them would not be safe nor desirable. The Leopard Men have long tusks
and spears and--"

"Leopard Men!" yelled Ato, flinging both arms round the trunk of a
tree. "Oh! Oh! and OH! I wish we were safely back at pirating, Sammy.
Here we are marooned on this miserable monkey island, inhabited by
Leopard Men, surrounded by crocodiles and no way of getting back to the
ship."

"You forget me," murmured the hippopotamus. Lumbering over to Ato, she
gave him a gentle nudge with her moist pink snout. "Nikobo, Little
Daughter of the Biggenlittle River People, will carry you anywhere you
wish to go."




CHAPTER 6

A Little Wild Man


"Not yet, not yet," protested Samuel Salt as Ato made a clumsy attempt
to mount the hippopotamus. "Why, we've only just come, Mate. We can't
go without seeing these Leopard Men and this strange boy who speaks our
language."

"Oh, CAN'T we?" Drawing in his breath, Ato made a flying leap at
Nikobo, and this time managing an ear hold, pulled himself determinedly
up on her moist, slippery back. "Goodbye, Samuel," said the King with
a firm wave of his hand. "If you bring any Leopard Men back to the
_Crescent Moon_, you can discover yourself another cook. No Leopard
Men. Mind, now!"

"Oh, you needn't worry about that." The hippopotamus closed one eye and
smiled knowingly to herself. Thoroughly annoyed by the desertion of Ato
and the superior grin of the river horse, Samuel snatched a long rapier
from his belt and glowered belligerently around him.

"Shiver my timbers! You think I'm not strong enough nor smart enough to
fight these savages? HUWHERE are these Leopard Men?" roared the former
Pirate in such a reverberating voice the monkeys fled silently to the
tree tops, and even Roger put his head under his wing.

"Gone, all gone!" explained Nikobo as she started calmly down toward
the river bank.

"You mean there are no Leopard Men on this Island now?" Looking with
horror and aversion at the crocodile-infested river, Ato began tugging
at Nikobo's ear. "Not so fast, my good creature! Wait a moment, my
buxom lass! Perhaps I'll stay with Sammy after all."

"Well, just as you say." With scarcely a pause in her stride, the
hippopotamus turned round and waddled amiably back to the strip of sand
where Samuel Salt stood staring sternly into the jungle beyond.

"This is a great disappointment to me, Mates," sighed the Captain of
the _Crescent Moon_ mournfully wringing out the lace ruffles of his
cuffs. "To have taken a Leopard Man back to the Court of Oz would have
been an achievement worth the whole voyage."

"Now there's where we're different," murmured Ato, settling into a more
comfortable position on the back of the river horse. "I myself would
rather be disappointed than speared by a savage, and I don't care how
many Leopard Men I miss seeing. Rather be spared than speared, ha, ha!
Tee, HEE, HEE!" Ato chuckled from sheer relief.

"Shall I fly back to the ship for some more Oz flags?" Roger flapped
his wings inquiringly. "If the Leopard Men are really gone, then
Patrippany Island is ours without a spear thrown."

"That's so," mused Samuel Salt, thrusting his rapier back into its
sheath and beginning to show a little interest in the island itself.
"Fly ahead, my Hearty."

"And bring back some ship's biscuit," called Ato. "All this diving and
mud turtling has left me weak as a fish. And while we're waiting for
Roger, perhaps Nikobo will tell us a little about these Islanders. Were
they little or big, black or brown?"

"Yellow," answered the hippopotamus gravely. "Big and yellow with brown
spots all over their hides. They had brown hair, mane and eyes, and
rough snarling voices. They used neither huts nor shelter, but roamed
like the animals through the jungle, hunting, fishing and fighting.
They had hollowed out logs for use in the water and last Twig Day
every Leopard man, woman and child climbed into the long boats and
paddled out to sea. Shortly afterward--" Nikobo's eyes grew round and
shiny at the mere memory, "shortly afterward a great hurricane arose
and my family and I, watching from the mouth of the Biggenlittle River,
saw the boats and men swept under the waves. Some of the logs floated
back to the islands, but the Leopard Men and women we never saw again."

"Not even ONE?" exclaimed Samuel peevishly.

"Not even one," Nikobo assured him solemnly. "And to tell the truth,"
the hippopotamus flashed a sudden and expansive sigh, "it is much
better and safer without them. The one problem is the boy, and I've
been feeding him myself."

"Oh, yes, the boy who speaks our language," mused Samuel, still lost in
bitter reflections of the Leopard Men he should never see face to face.

"What've you been feeding him?" asked Ato, suspiciously. "How would a
hippopotamus know what to feed a boy?"

"I do the best I can," said Nikobo in a hurt voice. "Every day I
collect fresh roots, herbs and grasses for him."

"Roots, herbs--grasses! Merciful Mustard! A boy's being fed on roots,
herbs and grasses, Sammy. Did you ever hear of anything more ridiculous
in your life?"

"No worse than spinach," mumbled Samuel Salt. "But SAY, look here--"
The Royal Explorer of Oz raised his arm imperiously. "What is a small
boy doing on this island? How'd he get here in the first place, and
where is he now?"

"Follow me," directed Nikobo in a dignified voice. "Follow me and you
shall know all." As Roger appeared at that moment with the Oz flags and
biscuits, the little procession immediately got under way, Ato calmly
riding behind.

On her many visits to the strange boy, Nikobo had worn a path through
the tangled growth of vines and bush. Tenuous trees dropped their
branches over this path and stretched out their gnarled roots to trip
the unwary traveler. Several times Roger let out hoarse squeals as a
huge snake coiled along the limb of a tree, thrust out its ugly head.
Gaudy flowers from the vines that closely entwined every tree, filled
the air with a damp sleepy fragrance, and Samuel Salt, darting his eyes
left and right, held his blunderbuss ready for any savage beast that
might spring upon them. But the jungle creatures, thinking the Leopard
Men had returned, slunk further and further into the green shadows and
without any mishaps or encounters, Nikobo brought the explorers to a
small clearing in the whispering tangle of green.

Here they were suddenly confronted by a stoutly built cage, its bars
constructed of saplings set scarcely an inch apart. On a heap of grass
in a corner of the cage crouched the lonely figure of a little boy
clothed in a single leopard skin.

"Well, goosewing my topsails!" panted Samuel Salt, deceived at first by
the leopard skin. "A little wild man, a Leopard boy, as I'm a salt sea
sailor!"

"It's nothing of the kind," Nikobo contradicted him sharply. "Can't you
see he is white and has teeth as straight as your own instead of tusks?
He's not like the Leopard Men at all."

"But who put him in this cage? What's he done, and what's he doing
here?" Slipping off Nikobo's back, Ato pressed his face close to the
bars of the strange prison.

"I am waiting for my people to come and rescue me," stated the boy,
rising with great dignity from his bed of grass. Folding his arms, he
looked haughtily out at the explorers. "Who are these men, Nikobo?"
he inquired sternly. "Why have you brought them here?"

"Because they seemed friendly and speak your language," puffed the
hippopotamus, beaming lovingly at her small charge. "Because I thought
they might break these bars and set you free. They have a hollow log
seventy times as large as the hollowed logs of the Leopard Men. In
this they could easily carry you over the waters and back to your own
people. I've tried to break this miserable hutch dozens of times,"
explained Nikobo, turning to Samuel Salt. "But the saplings are sunk so
deep, I've been afraid I'd crush Tandy as well as the cage if I pushed
too hard."

"Quite likely," said Samuel Salt, rapping the bars with his knuckles.
"We'll have to fetch an ax from the ship. But who shut you up here,
little Lubber, and how long have you been prisoner on this island?"

"Five months and a half," answered the boy after consulting one of the
bars in the corner of his cage. "I've made a nick in this bar with my
teeth for every day I have been here."

"Well, that's all over now, you poor child, you!" Ato's voice shook
with indignation as he looked in at the little boy whose every rib
showed plainly under the skin. In fact, a heap of grass and dried roots
in the cage made the kind-hearted monarch shudder with distaste and
sympathy. "You shall come with us and eat like a King," he promised,
nodding his head cheerfully, "and learn to be an able-bodied seaman
to boot." Instead of looking grateful or pleased, the boy whom the
hippopotamus had called "Tandy" merely stood looking between the bars
of his cage.

"Why should I go with you?" he said finally and wearily. "You look wild
and dangerous to me, and far worse than the Leopard Men. Here, at least
I have Kobo to take care of me, and who knows what further perils and
hardships I should suffer at sea?"

"Ho! HO! And how do you like that, my lads?" Roger rocked backward and
forward on Samuel Salt's shoulder. "The young one speaks truly. If you
could but see yourselves, my Hearties." Now both Ato and Samuel had
forgotten their plunge in the river, but with their hair and clothing
still covered with mud and slime they looked the veriest rogues
and rascals. And while Ato regarded himself with embarrassment and
discomfiture, Samuel took a quick step forward.

"SO!" roared the great seaman angrily. "So, you don't trust us, eh?
Well, stay here if you wish and grow up like a monkey. You look like a
little wild man already."

"STOP!" Nikobo quivered all over with resentment. "You must not call
Tandy a wild man."

"Don't mind." The boy drew the leopard skin around him with quiet
dignity. "I can bear it. I have borne far worse. I can bear anything. I
am a KING and the son of a King's son! Tell them to go away, Kobo."

"Now, Now, NOW! This is nothing but nonsense." Ato clapped his hands
sharply. "However we look, my young squab, you are in good and royal
company. My mate here, Captain Salt, is Captain of the _Crescent Moon_,
Royal Explorer of Oz, and a Knight, besides. I, though at present
a ship's cook, am King of the Octagon Isle, and Roger, here, is as
Royal a Read Bird as ever wagged a bill and wing. If you say you are
a King, we will have to believe you, though 'tis hardly credible."
Ato stared with round eyes at the matted hair and dirty body of the
little prisoner. "If you say you are a King we must believe you, but in
return you must believe _us_, and stop all this hoity toity talk and
clishmaclatter."

"He speaks the plain truth." Nikobo pressed her huge snout close to the
bars. "Even I can detect the signs of royalty in this fat and goodly
person whom I just this morning helped out of the river. You must go
with them, Tandy, and they will carry you back to your own Kingdom."

"But I tell you, I'd rather stay here with YOU," wailed the little boy,
relaxing a moment from his kingly and overbearing attitude.

"Roger, fetch the AX." Samuel Salt spoke so loud and sternly Nikobo
lapsed into a shocked silence and Tandy hastily drew back into a far
corner of his cage.

"Never argue with a sea-going man," whispered Ato, winking solemnly as
Roger flew off to obey Samuel's order. Having settled the matter in his
own mind, Samuel turned his back on Tandy and began to examine with
deep interest the fungus growth on one of the gnarled old trees. "So
you really are a King?" Leaning against the huge body of Nikobo, Ato
folded his hands comfortably on his stomach and regarded the boy in the
leopard skin earnestly. "Now what country do you hail from and what do
they call you at home?"

"I am Tazander Tazah of Ozamaland," announced the boy proudly, "the
land of the creeping bird and flying reptile. Ozamaland on the long
continent of Tarara is my home."

"OZAMALAND!" shouted Samuel Salt, swinging round like a teetotum. "So
there really IS such a place. I have always said so, Ato, but no one
would believe me. Lies to the east of here, doesn't it, sonny, and is
twice as large as any known land bordering on the Nonestic?" Somewhat
impressed to find that Samuel Salt knew something of his homeland, the
little boy nodded. "And do you suppose we could snare one of those
creeping birds and flying reptiles if we managed to reach Ozamaland?"
Grasping the bars of the cage, Samuel peered anxiously into the young
King's face.

"Do you suppose you ever could reach Ozamaland?" sighed Tazander,
returning Samuel's eager look with gloomy aloofness. "Do you know that
a ship has never touched our shores?"

"Then the _Crescent Moon_ shall be the first!" cried Samuel Salt,
snapping his fingers joyfully. "Why, this will be tremendous and the
most momentous discovery in a thousand years! But how do you happen
to be so far from Ozamaland yourself?" asked Samuel Salt immediately
afterward. "Did you come by air or sea?"

"That I cannot tell." Tazander seated himself soberly on a log before
he continued. "One night I was sleeping soundly in my tower in the
White City, next thing I remember I was here in this jungle. The
Leopard Men, wild and savage as they were, fed me when they remembered
on raw fish and chunks of hard, bitter bread they made from the roots
of the Brima Tree. But I could not understand their talk, nor they
mine, and till Kobo found me a month after my imprisonment I had no one
to talk to at all. But she has come every day to keep me company and
try to set me free, and since the Leopard Men were drowned she has fed
me, too. See, through this little door." Tazander opened a small door
in the bars and stuck both hands through.

"But how did you learn the language?" asked Ato, turning round to gaze
up into Nikobo's huge face.

"I don't know," said Nikobo with an excited gulp. "I just started to
say 'Hello!' and instead of saying it in hippopotamy, there I was
talking a strange language which I could understand as well as my
own. And in this language Tandy answered me, much to my delight and
pleasure."

"Strange, very strange." Ato shook his head in a puzzled manner.
"Well, all I say is, it was lucky for this small fellow that you
happened along, and once we have him aboard he'll soon forget all these
hardships and unpleasant experiences."

"I'll never forget Kobo," said the young King, backing stiffly away
from the outstretched arms of Ato.

"And Kobo'll never forget YOU," sniffed the hippopotamus. "The talk
of the river people seems dull and stupid since I've talked to Tandy.
None of the herd really need me and I don't know what I'm going to
do--whoo--Hoo HOO WHOOO!" Rocking from side to side, Nikobo began
to sob as if her heart would break, so violently in fact, Samuel
Salt covered both ears and Ato, alarmed at the enormous grief of the
gigantic beast, tried to put his arms around her.

"Here, here!" begged the ship's cook, thumping her hard upon the back.
Opening the bag of biscuits Roger had brought from the ship, Ato handed
two to Tandy and began shoving the rest as fast as he could down the
vast throat of the grief-stricken hippopotamus. After each biscuit,
Nikobo choked and sobbed to herself, but on the whole, they seemed
to comfort her, and when the Read Bird finally returned with the ax
she watched almost cheerfully as Samuel Salt, with well-aimed blows,
demolished Tandy's jungle cage. As the last side crashed down and
without giving Tandy time to argue any further, Samuel Salt seized
the boy firmly in both arms and set him down on the back of the
hippopotamus. Then, giving Ato a hand up behind him, the Captain of
the _Crescent Moon_ sternly led the way to the edge of the island.
Roger, waving an Oz flag, flew ahead screaming defiantly to the monkeys
and parrots that infested the island, "WAY, WAY! Way for the Royal
Discoverer of Oz! Way for the King of the Octagon Isle! Way for Nikobo,
Little Daughter of the Biggenlittle River People. Way for Tazander
Tazah, King and son of a King's son! WAY--ay--ayyyy!"




CHAPTER 7

Strange Specimens for Samuel Salt


With no one to challenge their going but the birds and monkeys, the
little band made its way back to the sandy beach. Tandy, perhaps
because he had been so long pent up in the silent jungle and because he
was by nature a naturally sober and solemn little boy, said nothing.
Not even the _Crescent Moon_, riding so proudly at her anchor, seemed
to arouse any interest or enthusiasm in this strange young Ozamalander.

"Well, here we are!" exclaimed Ato, heartily thankful to be in sight
of the ship again. "And I hope you'll not mind ferrying us out to the
boat, Nikobo; those crocodiles still look hungry and I've no notion of
being crocked for the rest of my life."

"Any time you say," grunted the hippopotamus, squeaking a listless
greeting to a company of her own relatives who were rolling lazily
about in the muddy river water.

"Avast and belay and what's the hurry?" Leaning his ax against a tree,
Samuel moistened a finger and held it up. "The wind's against us,
Mate, so we'll have to wait for the tide. Not only that, but Roger and
I must survey the island and dig up some more interesting specimens
to take back to the ship." After a long and rather quizzical look at
Tandy, Samuel turned and swung along the beach, the Read Bird flapping
joyously behind him.

"Run up and down a bit," advised Ato, sliding down from Nikobo's back.
"Your legs must need stretching. Wonder if there's anything to eat
around here or hereabouts? Aha, those look like oranges, a wild orange
grove, as I'm a cook and a seaman. Come along, young one, and help me
gather a few."

"A King and son of a King's son does not come and go at another's
bidding," announced Tandy, stiffly, alighting from the hippopotamus.

"Merciful mothers! What's this?" gasped Ato, blinking his eyes rapidly.
"As complete a case of ingrowing Royalitis as I've ever had the
misfortune to encounter. Well, since it's every King for himself, then
I'll be leaving you, sonny and son of a King's sonny. Watch out for
him, Kobo, he's probably real important to himself."

"You should not speak like that," reproved the hippopotamus as Ato
disappeared into the orange grove, "after all, the big and fat one is
himself a King."

"Pooh, King of some potty little island," sniffed Tandy, leaning
wearily against a palm. "Break me a cocoanut, Kobo, I'm thirsty."
With a discouraged sigh Nikobo trod on one of the cocoanuts, cracking
it from end to end and then, because she was a generous and kindly
creature, she cracked several more for Ato when he should return.
Sitting back on her haunches, she anxiously watched while Tandy downed
the cocoanut milk, then, stretching out in the sand, fell unconcernedly
asleep. Thus Ato found them when he emerged from the orange grove an
hour later. His elegant explorer's cape was knotted to form a sack
and bursting full of the small sweet fruit of the wild orange trees.

"These will make us a fine mess of marmalade when I get back to the
ship," panted the perspiring monarch, settling down with his back
cozily to Nikobo's. "How's young Saucebox?"

"All right." The hippopotamus nodded in Tandy's direction. "He is so
small and tired," she murmured worriedly, "and you must know he has
been exposed in an open cage in the jungle for five long months with
only a miserable hippopotamus for company."

"Miserable hippopotamus," snorted Ato indignantly. "You're a very
superior animal, my girl. I'd consider it an honor to converse with
you any day. Did you crack these cocoanuts for me?" As Nikobo, trying
bashfully to conceal her pleasure at Ato's praise, admitted she had,
the King took several long, satisfying draughts from the shells.
"Now, don't you worry about that young sprout," he advised kindly as
Nikobo continued to gaze mournfully at the sleeping boy. "We'll make
allowances for his High and Mighty Littleness and set him down in his
own country. That is, if we ever manage to find it, though I must say
he'll not be much use nor company for us. Ahoy! Here comes Sammy.
Wonder what he's found?" As a matter of fact, the Royal Explorer of Oz
looked more like a walking window box than a seaman. Long vines hung
from his neck and trailed from his pockets. His arms were crammed with
spiked and prickly plants and on his head he balanced a package of sea
shells tied up in his shore-going coat.

"What you going to do, start a conservatory?" roared Ato as Roger
helped the Captain set his treasures on the ground.

"Rare and unusual, all of 'em," said Samuel, dropping down beside Ato
and looking with complete satisfaction at his curious collection.

"Mind those yellow creepers," warned Nikobo, wiggling her vast snout
warningly. "Those purple flowered plants in the middle are treacherous,
too. They are tumbleweeds, Master Long Legs, and 'tis from them
Patrippany Island gets its name. When the Leopard Men fought, they
would fling these weeds at one another, and I've seen them falling
about for hours, neither side being able to advance a step or even
stand up."

"Tumbleweeds!" breathed Samuel ecstatically. "You don't SAY! Why, these
might come in real handy if we ever get in a tight place. I'll give a
few to the Wizard of Oz and to the Red Jinn when we get back from this
voyage. And what about the yellow creepers, Mate? Are they fighting
plants, too?"

"The creepers, if uprooted and thrown at an animal or man, will creep
rapidly after him, catching him no matter how fast he runs and tying
him up so tight he will not be able to move until the vine withers,"
explained Nikobo solemnly. "I happen to know from an experience I had
with one of these vines in my early youth."

"Creeping vines," shivered Ato, moving as far away from Samuel's
collection as possible. "Just keep them away from me, Sammy. What right
have such things on a ship?"

"Oh, they'll be harmless enough when they're potted," answered Samuel
easily. "And a splendid weapon they'll make for some up and coming
country."

"Better keep them for ourselves," advised Roger, fluttering down to
Samuel's shoulder. "Exploring's a dangerous business, if you ask me,
Master Salt."

"Well, you'll have to admit that it's been pretty safe and successful
so far," said Samuel, clasping his hands behind his head and gazing
contentedly up at the waving fronds of the palm trees.

"SAFE!" The ship's cook began to shake and quiver all over. "Ho, ho!
Safe? Especially sailing round that volcano and going swimming with the
crocodiles! Safe! You'll be the death of me yet, Sam-u-el. Have you
planted your Oz flags and told the wild creatures in the jungle about
their new sovereign?"

Roger nodded his head importantly. "We've raised Oz flags on the
tallest trees on the East, South, West and North sides of the Island.
I flew across and got a bird's eye view while the Captain walked clear
'round. We've discovered it's bean shaped, King dear, the exact shape
of a kidney bean, and a fine fertile place for settlers and prospectors
from Oz."

"Yes, all they have to do is cut down a million trees, drain the swamps
and train the wild beasts in the jungle to be as polite and considerate
as Nikobo here."

"Well, what of it? That's their problem." Samuel stretched himself,
luxuriously snapping each finger to see that it was still working.
"And now, since our part is done, what do you say to waking this son
of a King's son and getting aboard the ship? The tide'll run out in a
couple of hours and carry us along." Tazander had been awake for some
time listening to the conversation with closed eyes. Now sitting up, he
calmly spoke his mind.

"I'm not going with you," he stated grandly. "I'm going to stay here
with Kobo till my own people come for me."

"Hah! Mutiny!" Leaping to his feet, Samuel glared down at the puny
youngster with real anger and exasperation. "If you think I'm going to
leave you on this island to be devoured by wild animals when Nikobo's
back is turned, you don't know your pirates. CLIMB up on that animal.
Lively, now!" Samuel looked so fierce and threatening, Ato felt rather
sorry for the stubborn little King, but he was wasting his sympathy.

"I'm not going," said Tandy, settling more determinedly down into the
sand. "And no one can make me."

"Don't say that! Don't say that!" Blubbering with grief at the thought
of losing her small charge and shivering with anxiety lest he arouse to
further anger this tall sea captain, Nikobo lumbered to her feet and
began to whisper eagerly in Tandy's ear. During this short conference
Samuel gathered up his specimens and Ato his oranges, and when both had
finished the hippopotamus edged nervously forward.

"I've decided to go with you," she announced in a slightly shaken
voice. "If I go, Tandy'll go, so I'll just GO!"

"WHAT?" roared Samuel Salt, dropping his shells and clapping his hand
to his forehead. "Well, that practically solves everything!" Looking
wildly from the hippopotamus to the _Crescent Moon_, Samuel had a
dreadful vision of Nikobo rolling dangerously from side to side of his
cherished vessel.

"What'll you eat?" demanded Roger, who was ever more practical than
polite. "How'll we ever feed this enormous lady, Cook dear? Besides,
she'll sink the ship."

"I'll be very quiet and stay wherever you put me," murmured Nikobo in a
meek voice. "I'll go on a diet and eat whatever is left."

"Well, why couldn't she go?" proposed Ato, who already had formed a
great liking for Tandy's devoted guardian. "Why couldn't she? Nice kind
motherly creature that she is!"

"But a hippopotamus needs fresh water and tons of food and--" Then
suddenly Samuel brought his hands together with a resounding smack.

"Have you thought of something?" asked Ato hopefully, shifting his
oranges from one shoulder to the other.

"Yes," stated the former Pirate solemnly, "I have." Samuel was secretly
delighted to have found a way to carry this superb herbivorous specimen
back to Oz. "I'll build her a raft and tow her along after the ship.
We'll stop at all the islands we come to for fresh water and grass, and
meanwhile she'll have to do with salt baths and such food as we have in
the hold."

"Oh, KOBO! Did you hear that?" Springing up with the first signs of
life or feeling he had yet shown, Tandy flung himself on his huge
champion and friend. "So you're really going. Then I'll go too."

"Can't be all bad, if he's as fond of her as all that," whispered Ato
in Samuel's ear.

"Not bad, just a pest," wheezed Samuel, reaching for his ax. "Needs a
taste of the rope, if you ask me." Then, while Nikobo went for a last
swim in the Biggenlittle River and bade goodbye to her numerous and
wondering relatives, Samuel felled trees, split wood, and with nails
Roger fetched from the ship fashioned a splendid strong raft for their
new pet. Round the edge he built a sturdy railing to keep Nikobo from
sliding off in a rough sea. Ato and Roger, taking thought for the
evening meal, heaped one end of the raft with grass and twigs and all
the jungle roots they could gather. Without moving or offering to help,
Tandy sat watching, and just as the sun sank down behind the palms, a
strange procession started out for the _Crescent Moon_. Ahead with the
keg of nails soared Roger. Then came the hippopotamus moving like a
small dreadnought through the water. On her back sat Ato, the haughty
young King of Ozamaland, and Samuel Salt. Samuel rode last, holding in
his hand the long cable he had attached to the raft and with which he
meant to fasten it to the _Crescent Moon_.

Following his orders, Nikobo swam close to the side of the ship so
Tandy and Ato could climb the rope ladder, then she paddled round to
the stern where Samuel drew his cable through an iron ring in the
ship's hull and made the raft fast. There was a runway at the back of
the raft and the rails on that side let down so that Nikobo had no
trouble clambering aboard. By pulling a rope with her teeth, she could
raise or lower the back of her pen and take a swim whenever she felt
the need of one. After giving her a bit of advice about voyaging, and
seeing her comfortably settled, Samuel climbed the cable and nimbly
pulled himself aboard his ship. Roger had already stowed their precious
specimens in the hold and rubbing his hands with brisk satisfaction,
the Captain of the _Crescent Moon_ weighed anchor and dropped with
the tide down the Biggenlittle River to the sea. Then touching the
automatic controls, he set his sails to catch the evening breeze,
adjusted his steering gear for a course east by sou'east and strode
happily into his cabin. The Salamander chirped cheerfully as he passed
her hot box and after tapping a cheerful greeting on the lid, the weary
explorer stripped off his ruined and muddy shore-going outfit, took a
shower and climbed thankfully back into his old sea clothes.

"Where's the pest?" he called out as Roger flew past the open port.

"Well, since he was so small and important," sniffed the Read Bird,
waving a claw, "I gave him a large cabin to himself. I didn't think you
and Ato would want him in here."

"Shiver my timbers, NO." Samuel looked ruefully across at the small
berth the Philadelphia boy occupied on their last voyage. "He'll never
be the seaman Peter was, nor the company either. He'd better keep out
of my way, HAH! or I'll give him a taste of my belt." Snatching up his
spyglass and looking as stern as a kind-hearted pirate well can, Samuel
hurried out on deck.

Meanwhile, in the cabin next to the Captain's, Tandy stood regarding
himself mournfully in the small glass over his sea chest. He too had
taken a shower and at Roger's suggestion had donned one of Peter's old
pirate suits.

"I am a King and the son of a King's son," muttered Tandy, staring
sadly at the sallow reflection in the mirror. To tell the truth, the
suit was not in the least becoming to the skinny and sullen young
monarch.

"I am a King and son of a King's son and can bear anything," he
repeated dismally.

"Then bear a hand with the dinner," yelled Roger, who had been peeking
at him through the port hole. "All who eat must work, and under the
hatches with lubbers!"

Pretending not to hear, Tandy sat resignedly on the side of his bunk,
though he really was curious to look around the ship and see what
Kobo was doing. From the galley came the cheerful rattle of pots and
pans and the huge voice of Ato singing as he prepared the dinner.
Gulls flew in excited circles all round the _Crescent Moon_, calling
out their hoarse challenge and farewell, and Samuel Salt, leaning
on the taffrail, gazed dreamily back at Patrippany Island. The Oz
flags fluttering from the tall palms gave it quite a gay and festive
appearance and in spite of not seeing the Leopard Men, Samuel felt he
had done a good day's discovering.

"Ahoy, below! How you coming?" called Samuel, leaning down to look at
Nikobo. The hippopotamus wagged her huge head.

"Fine! Just fine, Mate," she wheezed pleasantly.

"Hah! Good for you!" Samuel's face broke into a broad grin as Kobo
remembered to call him "Mate." "We'll make an able-bodied seawoman of
you yet, my lass!"




CHAPTER 8

Maxims for Monarchs


When Ato, banging boisterously on an iron frying pan with a wooden
spoon, summoned all hands to dinner, Samuel and Roger responded with a
rush. But Tandy remained sitting gloomily on his bunk.

"Now what's the matter?" demanded Samuel Salt as Roger, sent to call
the young voyager, came flying back to the table.

"He says I may serve his dinner in the cabin," snickered Roger,
popping a biscuit into his mouth and swallowing it whole.

"Well, don't you do it!" roared the Captain, bringing his fist down
with an angry thump. "No use to start such nonsense!"

"But he's so thin and feeble. The poor child's just full of raw roots
and jungle grass," murmured Ato, beginning to heap a platter with
meat and vegetables. "Wait till he folds himself round some of these
seafarin' rations. He'll be a different person."

"And he'd better be!" rumbled the Captain of the _Crescent Moon_,
pulling in his chair. "And if you and Roger want to spoil the little
pest, go ahead, but he'd better keep out of MY way. HAH!"

"I could drop the dinner on his head," suggested Roger helpfully as Ato
handed him an appetizing tray for Tandy. "How would that be?"

"Utterly reprehensible, and conduct unbecoming in a Royal Read Bird and
able-bodied seaman," chuckled the ship's cook, shaking his finger at
Roger. "Why don't you try to help the little beggar and set him a good
example?"

Now Roger, in spite of his sharp tongue, was really a sociable and
kind-hearted bird and the sight of Tandy sitting so forlornly on his
bunk made him regret his teasing speeches. After all, the little
fellow was far from home and had had a hard time in the jungle.

"Here!" he puffed, setting down the tray and lighting the lantern.
"This'll put feathers on your chest, young one, and mind you eat every
scrap."

"Thank you," answered Tandy, so drearily that Roger with a shudder
of distaste fled back to the cheerful company of Samuel and Ato.
But later, when Samuel had gone below to pot the precious plants
from Patrippany Island and the ship's cook was leaning over the rail
conversing cozily with the hippopotamus, Roger flew back to Tandy's
cabin resolved to help him if he could. With calm satisfaction he noted
that Tandy had eaten everything on the tray. Lying on his back, the
young King of Ozamaland was staring solemnly up at the beams over his
bunk.

"Ahoy! And what goes on here?" cried Roger, setting down on the old sea
chest. "How about a turn on deck, my lad, and a bit of chatter with the
crew?"

"It is not seemly for a King and son of a King's son to talk with his
inferiors," observed Tandy coldly.

"In-feer-iors!" screamed Roger, forgetting all his good intentions
and mad enough to nip the youngster's nose right off. "Are you by any
chance referring to me?"

"Ozamaland is a great and powerful country and I am its King," stated
Tandy, turning his back on the Read Bird. At this Roger let out another
screech, and then suddenly remembering the purpose of his visit, took a
long breath to steady himself. When he spoke again his voice was both
calm and reasonable.

"Ozamaland may be a great and powerful country and you may also be its
King, but remember you are no longer in Ozamaland," explained Roger
firmly. "You are on this ship by the express wish and kindness of the
Captain and in the company of Kings and BETTER. WAIT!" Shaking a claw
at Tandy's back, Roger flew off to fetch one of Ato's books from the
shelf above the stove. Tandy was in the same position when he returned,
but paying him no further attention, Roger pulled the lamp nearer and
opened his volume.

"When a King is in the company of Kings," began the Read Bird
impressively, "he is no longer a special or royal being, but merely
a man among men, and as such must maintain his honor and standing by
sheer worth and ability alone."

"Who says that? What are you reading?" Tandy sat up with sudden
interest, for his whole life had been spent in study and reflection and
the voice of the Read Bird was not unlike the voice of Woodjabegoodja,
his royal instructor at home.

"I am reading _Maxims for Monarchs_," answered Roger calmly, "a book of
great authority and antiquity that has been used by the Rulers of Oz
and Ev and the Nonestic Islands these many thousand years. No great and
important country would think of being without a copy of this book," he
continued severely.

"Strange, then, that I should not have heard of it," mused Tandy,
looking not quite so sure of himself. "We have no _Maxims for Monarchs_
in Ozamaland."

"Pooh, Ozamaland!" Roger dismissed the whole country with a shrug of
his wing. "A country as young and unimportant as that would probably
know nothing about such matters."

"You mean my country is not so old nor important as Oz and this
two-penny island of your fat Master?" shouted Tandy angrily.

"Of course not. Why, it's not even been discovered, and whoever has
been there?" demanded Roger disdainfully. "Take you, as its King,
acting in this small up-country fashion--what CAN a fellow think?
Here--" Shoving the book toward the disagreeable young monarch, the
Read Bird urged him to look for himself. With a puzzled frown Tandy
reread the passage Roger had just quoted.

"Well, even though your Master is a King, you're not a King and neither
is Samuel Salt," said Tandy, looking at Roger with some of his former
arrogance.

"Oh, isn't he? Well, just lay to this, young fellow," Roger shook his
claw under Tandy's upturned nose. "Samuel Salt is Captain of this ship,
a Knight and the Royal Discoverer of Oz, which makes him seventy times
as important as you, King Pins. He not only is boss of the _Crescent
Moon_, but he rules the sea, discovering countries for other Kings to
govern, and if it were not for Samuel Salt and people like him, there
wouldn't be any Kingdoms nor people like you to run them. See? As for
me, I'm a Royal Read Bird and wouldn't be a King for a minute. I can
live my own life and go and come as I please."

"Then while I'm on this ship I'm not a King at all," said Tandy
wonderingly. "Then what am I? What am I supposed to do?" The little
boy looked puzzled and positively frightened.

"Why, you're supposed to act like a person, that is, if possible,"
sniffed Roger, reaching over for his book and looking at Tandy sideways
down his bill. "What are you besides a King? What can you do that is
useful or interesting?"

"Do, DO?" Tandy's voice rose shrilly. "Why--er--why, I can draw
pictures and ride an elephant."

"Good!" Roger put up his claw to hide the grin that, in spite of his
best efforts, began to spread round his bill. "Well, there isn't much
call for drawing or elephant riding on a ship, but you can draw water
to swab the decks and I'll teach you to ride the yards and follow the
crosstrees to the main topgallant mast in the blowingest blow that ever
blowed. And depend upon it, young one, you'll have more fun as a person
than you ever had as a King. There's no place for having fun like a
ship!"

"Fun!" said Tandy flatly and inquiringly. "What's that?"

"Tar and tobaccy jack! What are you tellin' me?" Roger almost toppled
off the sea chest. "Do you mean to sit there like a dumb image and tell
me you've never had any fun? Never felt so bursting full of ginger and
happiness you could sing or do a sailor's horn pipe?"

"It is not seemly--" began the boy in a staid voice. "It is--"

"Seemly! Great goosefeathers, are you alive or aren't you?" gasped
Roger. "What in paint did you do in that cussed country of yours before
you got carried off and penned up like a pig in the jungle?"

Considering Roger's question, Tandy clasped and unclasped his hands
nervously. "Well, you must know," he began in a very grown-up voice,
"the King of Ozamaland is not allowed to mingle with the common people.
In all things he is alone and set apart. So it was with my father and
mother before they disappeared. So it is with me. Furthermore, it being
prophesied that I would be carried off by an aunt in the middle years
of my youth, it was deemed expedient and necessary to keep me locked
away from danger in the White Tower of the Wise Men."

"Hurumph!" grunted the Read Bird, who had not heard so many long words
since the voyage began. "And what did you do in this precious tower?"

"I studied," sighed Tandy, reclining wearily back on his pillows, "for
there are many things a King must learn. But one hour of every evening
I was permitted to walk about the garden on top of the tower and look
down upon my Kingdom. On very great occasions I was allowed to come out
and ride the white elephant in the grand processions of state."

"Humph!" grunted Roger again, looking at Tandy with round dismayed
eyes. "And with whom did you play?" he asked after a little silence.

"Play?" Again Tandy's voice was politely inquiring.

"The word was _play_," insisted the Read Bird doggedly. "With whom
did you run about, play tag, checkers, pirates or go fishing?"

Tandy looked confused and Roger shook his head sorrowfully. "Never
heard of such things!" he exclaimed indignantly. "Well, all I can say
is, whoever carried you off and shut you up in that jungle cage did you
a real service. If you had not been there we never would have found
you and I'm here to tell you that from now on things are going to be
different. You're discovered now and aboard the grandest ship afloat.
You can forget all about being a King and start right in being a person
and an able-bodied seaman. I for my part mean to see you have some fun
or break a wing in the attempt."

"But would a King--"

"King! Never let me hear that terrible word again," shuddered Roger,
sticking his head under his wing and then popping it comically out
again. "From now on, you're plain Tandy and can do as you plain please
so long as it does no harm to yourself or the ship. Understand? And
tomorrow we'll start having fun, so be ready." Roger's promise sounded
almost like a threat, but there was such a merry twinkle in his eye,
Tandy began to feel interested. "You might even begin tonight," sniffed
Roger, taking up the tray. "Just begin by thinking of something you
want to do. Think about it hard and then DO it." Winking cheerfully
over the empty plates, the Read Bird spread his wings and sailed
through the port.

For several minutes Tandy lay where he was, turning Roger's last
injunction over and over in his stiff, precise little mind. What DID he
really want to do? At first he could think of nothing. Then suddenly
he knew. Why, of course--he wanted to talk to Kobo and he just plain
WOULD. There was a frosted cake left from his supper, and slipping it
into his blouse, Tandy stepped quietly out on deck. The ship, with only
a slight roll, was moving briskly through the water, white foam falling
in lacy spray from her sides, the moon-white sails spread like giant
wings above his head. There was no one in sight, and almost holding his
breath, Tandy tiptoed aft and leaned adventurously over the taffrail.

"Kobo--Yo KOBO!" he called huskily.

"Hello! I thought you'd be out soon." Swinging round and turning her
vast smile upward, the hippopotamus gazed fondly at her young charge.
"Are you comfortable? Did you have a good dinner?" she asked anxiously.

"Yes, and look what I saved for you!" As he spoke, Tandy glanced
over his shoulder as if he were almost afraid to have anyone see him
enjoying himself. "Open your mouth, Kobo!" he whispered eagerly.
Without hesitation or question the hippopotamus stretched her jaws wide
and Tandy with the first real thrill of his life flung the frosted cake
into that immense pink cavern. As Kobo neatly caught and snapped her
lips on the tempting morsel Tandy let out a faint cheer and began to
think there might be something in Roger's suggestions after all. "I'll
throw you lots of things tomorrow," he promised gaily. "Good night,
Kobo. Good night, Kobo dear."

Humming a tuneless little song, the young King hurried almost
cheerfully back to his cabin. Pausing in the doorway of his tidy
quarters, he looked about complacently. What did he want to do next?
There was no one to tell him to go to bed, so he just plain wouldn't.
He'd sit up as late as he plain pleased. Rummaging through Peter's sea
chest, which Ato had placed near his bunk, Tandy found a large tablet
of stiff paper, a box of paints and some crayons. Settling himself
cross-legged on his bunk, he began drawing, not pictures of the castles
and courtiers of Ozamaland, but pictures of the queer jungle beasts and
Leopard Men he had seen on Patrippany Island.

When Roger, on first watch, called out eight bells, he saw Tandy's
light still burning, and flying down to investigate, found his new
pupil fast asleep in the middle of his masterpieces. The whole bunk
was covered with bright drawings and pictures and even to Roger's
inexperienced eye they seemed excellently done. So, carefully the Read
Bird stowed them in the sea chest, then, without bothering to waken or
undress the little King, he covered him with a light blanket and went
quietly from the cabin.




CHAPTER 9

Sea Legs for Tandy


"If what Roger tells us is so, little Sauce Box yonder has had a
pretty dull life," said Ato as he and the Captain sat finishing their
breakfast next morning. "Lucky for him we happened along and anyway,
the hippopotamus will be good company, eh, Samuel? She seems downright
sensible and jolly. Reminds me of Pigasus and I suppose she does belong
to the pig family when you come to think of it."

"Well, she's a pretty big pig if she does," laughed Samuel Salt,
swallowing his coffee with gusty relish. "Pretty big any way you take
her. Personally, I like the animal, but the King and son of a King's
son! PAH! Reminds me of Peter, he's so different, and the sooner we
reach Ozamaland and set him ashore, the better. Meals in his own cabin.
Hoh!"

"Oh, give him time," drawled Ato, helping himself a second time to
fried potatoes. "If there's any good in the lad, a sea voyage will
bring it out, and what chance has he had shut up in a tower for ten
years and in a cage for five months? Though how an aunt managed to
have him carried so far and why she left him with those savages in the
jungle I can't get through my head at all."

"Maybe it was a gi-ant," whistled Roger, swooping down on Ato's plump
shoulder and flapping his wings cheerfully. "How far do you figure it
is to Ozamaland, Master Salt?"

"Well, that I couldn't just say," answered Samuel in a milder voice.
Pushing back his chair, he stepped over to the map on the west wall.
"Maybe a thousand leagues or so from Patrippany Island, maybe more,
in a line east by sou'east from Ev. If that is so, we're bound to
bump into it sometime, as I've set my course east by sou'east, and
anyway it's all in the year's sailing." Samuel bent over with pride
to examine the newest island discovery he had marked on the chart the
evening before. "And when we do come to it," he announced firmly,
"we'll trade this useless young one for some of those flying snakes and
creeping birds, eh, Mates?"

"If we bring any more animals aboard we might as well set up an ark and
be done with it," warned Ato, shaking his fork at the Captain. "By the
way, how's Sally this morning?'

"Tiptopsails!" grinned Samuel. "She eats nothing but hot air and water
and is no more trouble than a hair in a flea's whisker. I can carry her
round in my pipe when I want company. Now there's a lass for you!"

"Well, I'll just see to Nikobo, for she's the girl for me," retorted
Ato, rolling briskly out of his seat. "I saved all the potato peelings
from last night, and that, with a dozen cans of peas, corn, carrots and
beets, should stay her appetite till lunch time."

"Forty cans at one swallow," groaned Roger, clapping a claw to his head
in mock dismay. "She'll eat us out of ship and home at this rate. Can't
you think of something else, King dear? A nice wind pudding or a tub of
sea soup sprinkled with faggots."

"Oh, go along with you," roared Ato, and picking up his precious coffee
pot, he waddled cheerfully off to his storeroom.

The day was bright and breezy and the _Crescent Moon_ going free,
breasted the waves like a white-winged sea witch. It was SUCH a
morning that even Tandy, peering inquiringly from his cabin, felt an
uncontrollable impulse to slide down the deck. So he did, coming up
smartly by Roger, who was perched on the rail.

"That's it! That's it! Now you're catching on," approved the Read Bird,
hopping cheerfully from one foot to the other. "Now match your step to
the sea's roll, sonny, get into her rhythm. You've got to breathe with
the ship to carry your rations on a voyage. Watch the Captain, there,
and do as he does," finished Roger as Samuel Salt left his cabin and
came striding aft.

"Rather watch you!" exclaimed Tandy, who sensed the Captain's dislike.
Uneasily he moved a little nearer the Read Bird.

"All right, come on then!" shouted Roger, heading recklessly for the
foremast. "Ever climb a tree?" Tandy shook his head, looking with
deep misgiving into the maze of sail and rigging above. But Roger
was already aloft and beckoning for him to follow. "Not that way,
Brainless!" scolded Roger anxiously as Tandy, gritting his teeth, made
a desperate leap upward. "See those rope ladders by the rail? Put your
feet in the ratlins, boy, and come along hand over hand. It's easy as
flying once you get the swing of it. There, that's better! Come on!
Come on! Don't stop! Don't look down." So up--up and up the narrow rope
ladders toiled Tandy, till Roger, growing impatient, seized his collar
and helped him straddle the crosstree of the fore t'gallant mast.
"Ahoy! And isn't this better than riding an elephant?" beamed Roger,
winking a knowing eye. "Ahoy, this is fun and NO fooling." Seeing Tandy
was too dizzy and breathless to talk for a moment, Roger cheerfully set
himself to teach the young Ozamander a bit about ships and sailing.
Soon Tandy was so interested he forgot the leap and plunge of the ship,
the rattle and creak of the cordage and his own precarious perch in the
foremast.

"The _Crescent Moon_," began Roger with an impressive jerk of his head,
"is a square rigged three-masted sailing vessel. Normally 'twould take
from sixty to eighty men in a crew to set and make sail and bring
her about in a blow. But Samuel Salt has magic sail controls, so we
three manage quite easily, and now that YOU are here and the handy
hippopotamus below 'twill be easier still. The mast we're riding is the
foremast. The mast second from the bow, as we call the front of the
ship, is the mainmast, and the mast at the back or, as we salt water
birds say, the stern of the boat, is the mizzenmast. And now for the
sails." Roger took a deep breath. "Those below, beginning from the
bottom up, are the course, the topsail, the topgallant sail, the royal
and the sky sail. And don't forget!" Roger wagged his claw sternly.
"Before each sail you must put the name of the mast to which it is
attached. As, for instance, this ahead of us is the fore-topgallant
sail. SEE? And everything to the left of the ship's center we say is on
the port side and anything to the right is on the starboard."

"Then tell me why is the water on the port side bluer than the water on
the starboard?" asked Tandy, who had been listening very solemnly as he
tried to fix all of these strange sea terms in his head.

"Bravo!" cried Roger. "Right the first time, Mate. And the water is
bluer on the port side of the vessel because it is saltier. The bluer
the saltier," declared Roger, who, besides his first voyage with the
_Crescent Moon_, had read all the sea books in Ato's library and was
simply crammed with deep sea facts and information. "And what is more,"
he continued, pursing his bill mysteriously, "we're sailing in a magic
circle never knowing what may pop up over the edge. A ship? An island?
A hurricane? Or even a fabulous monster! That's what makes sea voyaging
so glorious, and sailing so much fun!"

Tandy, staring at the empty circle of blue falling away from the ship
on all sides, nodded dreamily. The White City--Patrippany Island--all
his former life and existence seemed unreal and far away and he hoped
in his heart of hearts the _Crescent Moon_ would not reach his native
shores for many a long gay day. As Roger said, being a person _was_ fun.

"M--mm!" Roger sniffed suddenly. "Wonder what Ato's cooking? Smells
like taffy. I'll bet a ship's biscuit we're going to have a candy pull."

"A candy pull!" exclaimed Tandy, taking a furious sniff himself.
"What is that?" As Roger started in to explain about candy pulls, a
large green column shot up on the skyline, a column so surprising and
shocking in appearance Tandy felt positively stunned.

"Oh, look! LOOK!" he screamed, grabbing Roger's wing. "There's
something now. Oh, Roger, what fun! What terrible fun!"

"Fun?" Roger spun round like a weather cock in a gale. "Fun?" he
repeated, stretching out his neck as far as it would go and a few
inches besides. "Oh, my best bill and feathers. That's not fun--that's
a SEA-Serpent. Help! Help! Deck ahoy! 'Hoy! 'Hoy! Below! King! Captain!
Ato! SAMMY! SAMU-EL!" As if calling them not only by their titles
but by their names would increase the number of the ship's officers
and crew, Roger tugged wildly at Tandy's arm. "Below! Below! All
hands below," shrilled the Read Bird. "Cover all ports and batten the
hatches!"

Urged on by Roger, Tandy, still more interested than frightened,
descended rapidly to the main deck. At Roger's cries, Ato had run out
with a pan of bubbling molasses in one hand and his trusty bread knife
in the other. Right behind him stood Samuel Salt, his eye pressed to
his largest spyglass.

"Well, tar and tarry barrels!" exclaimed the Captain exultantly. "Why,
this is a sea serpent second to none, the finest example of a marine
ophidian I've ever met in all my voyages!"

"Oh, fiddlesticks!" blustered Ato, shaking him angrily by the arm. "Are
you a Captain or a Collector? Quick, now, make up your mind before your
ship is crunched down like a cracker and we're all swallowed up with
the crumbs. Quick, Sammy! For the love of salt mackerel, DO something!"
Squeezing himself between the cook and the Captain, Tandy saw that
there were now three immense shiny curves showing above the water, and
with scarcely a splash the tremendous monster was moving toward the
ship. Then suddenly it was upon them, and its huge horrid unbelievable
head came curling far over the bow of the _Crescent Moon_.

"Avast and belay! Avast and belay, you villain!" yelled Samuel Salt,
dropping his spyglass and grasping his blunderbuss while Roger beat his
wings together like castanets and screamed like a fire siren.

Tandy, rather frightened himself, and not knowing what else to do, fell
flat on his stomach and pulling a pad from his blouse, began making
a quick and frantic sketch of the dreadful sea beast. Its body was
leagues long and yards through, the head was large as a whole elephant
with a long curling silver tongue and darting green fangs. But it was
the teeth that made even the stout heart of Ato hammer against his
ribs. Each tooth of this singular sea serpent was a live white goblin
brandishing a long spear. Leaning far out of the yawning mouth, they
screamed, hissed and yelled at the defenseless company below. The next
forward thrust of the monster brought its head curling right down among
them. This so startled Tandy he could neither move nor scream. Samuel
fired his blunderbuss so fast and furiously it sounded like a dozen
guns, but it was Ato who really saved the day and his shipmates.

With calm and deadly precision, the ship's cook flung the pan of
still bubbling molasses straight into the cavernous mouth. Screaming
with surprise, pain and fury, the monster clamped its jaws together,
and finding them stuck fast on the taffy, fell writhing back into
the sea, dashing and slashing its head under water to ease the burn
and setting the _Crescent Moon_ to dancing like a cocklebur. But the
taffy, hardened by contact with the cold water, stuck faster than ever,
and unable to bite and scarcely able to breathe, the discomfited sea
monster backed away from the ship and went slithering and thrashing
away toward the skyline.

"Well, there goes our candy pull!" sighed Roger, falling in a limp heap
to Ato's shoulder. "Nice work! Nice work, King dear. There's a certain
touch about your fighting that is well nigh irresistible."

"Mains'ls and tops'ls! You certainly pulled a trick THAT time!" puffed
Samuel Salt, picking up his spyglass to have a last look at his lovely
specimen. "You saved us and the ship, that time, Mate. My bullets
rattled off its hide like hailstones off a roof."

"Pooh! Just happened to have the taffy handy," answered Ato, looking
rather regretfully into the empty pot. "Here, child, run back and tell
Kobo everything's all right." The ship's cook pulled Tandy quickly to
his feet. "Just listen to her squealing. The poor lass is probably
frightened out of her skin." As Tandy started aft on a run, Ato picked
up the sketch he had made of the monster. "Ahoy and what's this?" he
panted. "What did I tell you, Sammy? Look, the boy's drawn as lively a
picture of that varmint as you'd ever hope to paste in a scrap book.
Here it is--tail, teeth and everything!"

"Mean to say he drew that while we were all standing here ready to
perish and go down with the ship? Hah! That's what I call bravery in
action!" exclaimed Samuel. "And goosewing my topsails! If the young
lubber can draw like this he'll be a monstrous help to us, Mates. Why,
I'll make him cabin boy and Royal Artist of the Expedition with extra
rations and pay."

"Hurray! And I'll tell him," puffed Roger, spreading his wings
gleefully. "Hi, King! Hi, Tandy! Ho, Tandy! You've been promoted from
King to cabin boy and Royal Drawer of Animals and Islands and extry
rations and pay!"

Nikobo was as pleased as Tandy at her little charge's rise to favor,
and after they had both listened in rapt silence to Roger's news,
Tandy told her how Ato had routed the sea serpent. Meanwhile, Roger
had carried all the sketches Tandy had made of the Leopard Men and
Patrippany Island to the main cabin. Samuel's delight and enthusiasm
at having such spirited and authentic records of the lost tribe and
strange animals on Patrippany Island knew no bounds. He beamed on Tandy
so kindly and approvingly next time they met, the little boy felt warm
and jolly all the way down to his heels. Roger had already explained
his new duties to him and when Ato sounded the gong for dinner Tandy
was the first to answer. But when he started to pass the vegetables and
wait on the table, the Captain gruffly pushed him into a chair.

"All equals here," roared Samuel, slapping him affectionately on the
shoulder. "You've earned your place and your salt, sonny, and we'll all
help ourselves and each other." Tilting back his chair and keeping
time with his teacup, Samuel began to sing lustily:

    "Blow high--blow low--
      'Tis a salt sea life for me--
    With a good ship's crew I'll sail the blue
      With a good ship going free--eeeh--eeeh!
    With a good ship going free!"

Almost before he knew it, Tandy was singing, too.




CHAPTER 10

The City of Bridges


The days that followed always seemed to Tandy the happiest he had
known. He wondered now how he had ever endured his long, tedious,
pent-up life in Ozamaland. There was so much to see and do on a ship,
the hours were not half long enough. Being a full-fledged member of
the crew, he took his turn on watch, his trick at the wheel, and had
besides other duties on deck. After a bit of practice he could scramble
aloft like a monkey and liked nothing so much as perching in the
rigging looking far out to sea. The Read Bird had fastened a special
rope to the mizzenmast so that Tandy could swing out and drop down on
Nikobo's raft, and much of his free time was spent with the faithful
hippopotamus.

Sea life agreed enormously with Nikobo, especially since Ato had solved
the largest item of her diet. Noting the tangled mass of seaweed often
floating by on the surface of the sea, the clever cook let down the
ship's nets daily. The seaweed, crisp, tender and green, was dragged
on deck where Roger and Tandy went carefully through it, removing all
crabs, small fish and sea shells which seriously disagreed with the
hippopotamus. A huge hamper full was lowered to her every evening and
with this plentiful supply of green food, with the bread and delicious
vegetable scraps Ato saved from the table, Nikobo fared better than she
had on the Island. The largest tub on the boat served as a drinking
cup and this Tandy kept full by playing down the hose from the deck,
giving her a daily shower of fresh water at the same time. So, lacking
nothing in interest or comfort, Nikobo enjoyed herself hugely and to
the fullest extent.

On calm mornings, with the _Crescent Moon_ hove to, all hands would go
swimming. Nikobo loved to swim and to roll over and over like a mighty
porpoise, even though the salt water made her eyes sting. Since Tandy
had given Samuel the drawings of the Leopard Men, the ship's Captain
could not do enough for his young cabin boy, and among other things had
made a rope harness for Nikobo so Tandy could hang on when he perched
upon her slippery back. At first he had been satisfied to ride Nikobo,
but after several days he was splashing recklessly with the others and
Samuel had taught him all the swimming strokes he knew and had Tandy
diving over and under the hippopotamus in a way to make Roger scream
with envy and approval.

Swimming was the only part of a sea voyage the Read Bird could not
really enjoy, but he was always on hand to give advice, roosting on
Nikobo's head so long as she stayed above water and taking hurriedly to
his wings when she mischievously tried to dunk him. The hippopotamus
made a really splendid raft when they tired of swimming, and Ato, who
did not care for water sports so much as Samuel or Tandy, fished for
hours from her back, his feet hooked through the ropes of her harness
to keep him from falling into the sea. The only thing Tandy regretted
was Nikobo's great size and that she could not come aboard ship and
join them in the cabin. On cool evenings he and Ato and the Captain
(Roger preferring to take first watch) would sit cozily round the fire
listening to the stories Samuel told them of the days when he had been
a pirate and roamed up and down the Nonestic, capturing the ships and
treasure of all the powerful island monarchs. Tandy never tired of
these thrilling sea battles nor of watching Samuel Salt's pet fire
lizard.

Sally was now so tame she would allow any one of them to pick her up.
They had to be careful not to hold her against their clothing, however,
for though Sally did not burn the fingers, she set fire to whatever she
touched. Indeed, whenever they wanted a fire in the grate, they had
only to place the Salamander on the kindlings beneath the logs and a
cheery flame would blaze up instantly. It was in the fireplace Sally
took most of her exercise, racing and scittering over the glowing logs
or rolling happily in the red hot embers. But most of her time she
spent curled up in Samuel Salt's pipe, and it was always a surprise to
Tandy to see her comical head pop up over the edge of the bowl or hear
her chirping and purring to herself from her cozy bed of tobacco leaves.

Some evenings, when Ato was trying out new recipes in the galley,
Tandy and Samuel would descend to the hold to look over the plants
from Patrippany Island, try to figure out the script on the piece of
lava, and sort and arrange Samuel's shell collection. Every day after
the nets were drawn up there were new specimens to classify and label.
The drawing Tandy had made of the Sea Lion and all the pictures of the
Leopard Men and beasts on Patrippany Island, Samuel had framed and hung
above his shelves so that the hold was looking more and more like a
scientific laboratory every day.

"Do you suppose we'll ever find anything large enough to put in those
big cages and aquariums?" asked Tandy one night as he pasted a pink
label on a fluted conch shell.

"Sure's eight bells!" murmured Samuel Salt comfortably. "No telling
what'll turn up on a voyage like this. Personally I've set my heart on
a roc's egg, but setting the heart on a roc's egg won't hatch one out,
Ho, Ho! No, No! But, on the other hand, one never can tell and we've
had a week of such fine and pleasant days, I look for something to
happen any moment now, so you'd better put up your paste pot and turn
in, my lad, so we'll all be ready for the morning."

"Well, what would you do with a roc's egg?" inquired Tandy, reluctantly
clapping the top on his bottle of glue. "Aren't they terribly big and
terribly scarce, Captain Salt?"

"Terribly!" admitted Samuel Salt, placing his tray of lamp shells back
on their stand. "But a newly laid roc's egg is as rare as a mermaid's
foot, and no larger than one small tar barrel. Now if we could just
get a newly laid roc's egg aboard and find some way to preserve it,
why, well and good, if we didn't find a way and it hatched before we
landed, it could easily fly off with us and the ship, for THAT'S how
big a bird a roc is. But I'll take a chance if I ever find a roc's egg
and there's an island somewhere in these waters where rocs are known to
nest. Rock Island it's called, and a roc's nest would be something to
see, eh, Kinglet?"

"Please don't call me that," begged Tandy earnestly. "Roger says I
don't have to be a King on this ship and I like not being a King."

"Ha! Ha! And I like you that way myself," roared Samuel, tossing Tandy
suddenly to his shoulder. "Why, since you've stopped this King and son
of a Kinging, you're a seaman after my own heart, and so long as the
_Crescent Moon's_ afloat you've a berth on her! Up with you! Up with
you! Tomorrow's another day." Swinging gaily to the main deck, Samuel
tumbled Tandy into his bunk and went striding aft to take in his main
and mizzen topsails.

Next morning, while he and Ato were cutting up potatoes for Nikobo,
Tandy was not surprised to hear a loud hail from above. Something had
happened just as Samuel had predicted. Running out with a paring knife
still in his hand, he saw a strange glittering mountainous island abaft
the beam. It was still a goodish sea mile away, but with the glasses
Ato generously pressed upon him Tandy made out the most curious bit
of geography the eyes of a voyager had yet gazed on. There was not a
piece of level ground on the island anywhere. Its high, glittering,
needle-like peaks rose straight out of the sea with apparently no way
of ascending or descending. Of clear crystal, reflecting every color
of the rainbow, the beautiful island was almost too dazzling to look
at as it lay shimmering and sparkling in the bright sunshine. As they
sailed nearer, Tandy saw that a perfect maze of high and airy bridges
ran like a gigantic spider web between the peaks. On these bridges all
the island's life and activities seemed to take place. Quaint fluted
cottages were built in the center, and along the perilous catwalks on
either side raced the Mountaineers themselves, brandishing glittering
poles and spears and halberds.

"Pikes on the peak! Pikes on the peak! Port your helm, Sammy," roared
Ato. "Not too close! Not too near, Sam-u-el. How'd you like to be
pinned to the mast with a spear or flattened on the deck with a
boulder?"

"Ah, now, they're just excited!" answered Samuel Salt, squinting
curiously up at the Bridgemen, but Nikobo, with her short legs resting
on the top rail of her raft, squealed out a dolorous warning.

"Fighters! Fighters! These Pikers look savager than the Leopard Men.
Best back away, Master Captain, while there's still time."

"Oh, look! LOOK! There's a ship on the mountain," cried Tandy, jerking
Samuel's sleeve, "right there where that torrent comes down between the
bridges, a three-master, larger than the _Crescent Moon_."

"Then it's a battle!" boomed Samuel, bringing his helm hard around.
"Stand by to man the guns. 'Hoy, all hands, 'hoy!" While his shipmates
sprang to attention, Samuel darted from mast to mast, touching the
buttons on his sail controls.

"AYE DE AYE OH LAY!" The shrill unexpected cry came from the highest
bridge on the island, and was immediately taken up and repeated by all
the Pikemen on the lower bridges. It resulted in such a mad medley of
yodels that Ato clapped both hands to his ears and Nikobo plunged her
head in her drinking tub.

"Not only fighters, but singers!" grunted Ato, swinging the port
gun into an upright position. "Beef, beans and barley bread! What a
rumpus!" Tandy, who with Roger had charge of the other gun, could not
help but admire the calm way Samuel Salt ignored the dreadful outcry
from the bridges. Whether the pikes of the islanders could be flung
down upon them was still a question, but as Tandy looked anxiously
aloft, he saw the great white-sailed ship of the Mountain Men sweeping
toward the torrent. It paused for a breathless instant on the top and
then came rushing down upon them. They were right in the path of the
descending vessel which would strike them with such force both ships
would surely be demolished.

"I am a King's son and the son of a King's son," shuddered Tandy,
gritting his teeth and waiting desperately for the order to fire. "I
can bear anything."

"Not this! Not this!" chattered Roger, sliding wildly up and down the
shiny cannon. "It will shiver your timbers--it will shiver all of our
timbers. What in salt ails the Captain? Why doesn't he give the order
to fire and pepper these rascals before they reach us? Oh, oh! Oh--hh!"
But the only orders that came from the Captain were for Nikobo.

"Overboard, Lassie! Dive off! Quick, now, and swim for your life,"
bawled Samuel Salt, waving both arms frantically at the hippopotamus.
As Nikobo with a frightened squeal let down the back rail of her pen
and slid into the sea, Tandy felt a quiver and jerk through the whole
length of the _Crescent Moon_. Glancing aloft, he saw a strange change
in the sails. Where before they had been sturdy single stretches of
canvas, they were now great swelling balloon sails, each a perfect
air-filled sphere. As the ship from the mountain with an angry swish
catapulted down from the torrent into the sea, the _Crescent Moon_ rose
buoyantly into the air, allowing the enemy craft to shoot harmlessly
beneath her bow.

"What in Monday!" gasped Ato, flinging both arms round the cannon.
"What in Monday are you up to now? How'd we do this? Stop! Stop! I'm
no flier. No higher! No higher! Do you intend to impale us on yonder
Peaks?" Samuel Salt, hanging desperately to the wheel, made no reply
and as the ship, dipping and swaying, soared higher and higher the
deafening yodels of the Bridgemen ceased abruptly.

"Wha--wha--where are you heading?" demanded Roger, spreading his wings
in order to keep his balance on the sloping deck. "You never told us
you had balloon sails, Master Salt."

"Ahoy, but we never needed them before!" panted Samuel. "Look sharp
below, Roger. Tell me whether I'm over that lake or basin. Look sharp,
mind you, or we'll come to grief yet."

"Aye, aye!" quavered the Read Bird, dropping obediently over the side.
"It all looks sharp to me."

"Mean to say you're coming down in the middle of these pikes, peaks
and bridges?" moaned Ato, holding his head with both hands. "Avast and
belay, Mate, I signed up for a sea voyage and not a balloon ride. The
altitude's got you, Sammy, that's what. You've air holes in your head.
How do you expect the four of us to conquer this whole pesky peaky
island? How could we even take half of them?"

"By surprise," announced Samuel Salt grimly. "We'll take them by
surprise. Look, they're too surprised to even yodel. Fetch up the Oz
flags, Tandy, and all hands aft for further orders."

"Aft and daft!" choked Ato, hanging on to the rail as he made his
way toward the wheel. When Tandy came hurrying up from the hold, his
arms full of Oz flags, the _Crescent Moon_ hung directly over the
glittering Island. Roger fluttered anxiously just below calling up
hoarse information as to the size, possible depth and shape of the
sparkling blue lake between the peaks.

Listening carefully to Roger's directions, Samuel deflated his balloon
sails so skillfully the _Crescent Moon_ came down lightly as a swan in
the exact center of the Lake. Above and around the ship on all sides
hung the glittering spans of a beautiful Bridge City, and in stunned
silence and dismay the Bridgemen looked down on the flying ship and its
curious crew.

"Ahoy and hail, Men of the Mountain!" challenged Samuel in a ringing
voice. "You are now part and parcel of the great Kingdom of Oz, free as
before to govern yourselves, but from this day and henceforth on, an
island possession and colony under the protection and puissant rule of
her Majesty Queen Ozma of Oz!"

"OZ! Ozay Oz Oh Lay?" The cry came from the tallest and most splendid
of the Islanders, who was standing with folded arms on the lacy span
connecting the two highest peaks on the Mountain.




CHAPTER 11

The Prince of the Peaks


The cry, though loud, was no longer defiant, and Tandy with a little
gasp of relief saw the Mountaineers on all the bridges bring their
pikes to rest beside them and gaze aloft for further orders.

"I am Alberif, Prince of the Peaks," stated the Man on the Highest
Bridge, looking coolly down at Samuel Salt. "But YOU--you who come in
this flying ship to conquer the Island of Peakenspire, who are YOU?"

"Ato, the Eighth, King of the Octagon Isles, Sir Samuel Salt, Captain
of the _Crescent Moon_ and Royal Explorer of Oz, Tazander Tazah, King
of Ozamaland, and myself a Royal Read Bird," shouted Roger before any
of the others had time to speak for themselves.

The Prince of the Peaks, tall and splendid in his shining coat and
breeches of silver cloth, his broad-brimmed hat with its quill and
rosette of wild flowers, looked so much more impressive than anyone
aboard the _Crescent Moon_, Tandy half expected him to laugh at Roger's
boastful announcements. But instead, Alberif, leaning far out over his
royal bridge, looked down at them long and seriously.

"Two Kings, a Royal Discoverer, a Flying Ship and a Read Bird! Hi de
Aye de Oh!" whistled the handsome monarch, shaking his head ruefully.
"No wonder we were captured. What then are your terms, Kings, Captain,
Bird and Conquerors?"

"Not conquerors, COMRADES," called up Samuel Salt in his hearty voice.
"Only by your own wish, agreement and consent shall ye come under the
rule of Oz. If your Highness could but descend from yon Royal Bridge to
this ship, everything can be arranged both peaceably and pleasantly."

"'Ware, Alberif! 'Ware, Alberif!" yodeled the Pikemen on the lower
bridges. "Once aboard that ship eeee-ip! We may never see you again
eeeeee-yen!"

"Oh, nonsense!" blustered Samuel Salt impatiently. "I give you my word
as a Pirate and a seaman no harm shall come to you on the _Crescent
Moon_."

The Prince stood lost in thought for a moment, then tapping his
long alpenstock sharply he issued a high yodeled command. From the
bridgehead an immense basket swooped down. The Prince seated himself
gravely in the basket and with three men manipulating the ropes made a
swift and dizzy descent to the deck of the _Crescent Moon_.

While Samuel and Roger welcomed the tall and lordly Ruler of the
Mountain Isle, Ato hurried off to the galley to prepare some suitable
refreshments for his entertainment. Tandy, after Samuel had introduced
him, began making careful sketches of the handsome Prince, of the
lovely city of bridges and of the Pikemen, who still looked with
suspicion and distrust upon the ship that had taken the place of their
own.

"How about that basket?" whispered Roger, who had come out to help Ato
in the galley. "How'd you like to be hoisted and lowered like a sail?
And for salt's sake, King dear, dust the flour off your nose and put
on your crown, or this fellow will think you're King of the Cookies and
Doughnuts."

"Ha, ha! When he's tasted my plum cake he'll not think it, he'll know
it!" puffed Ato, bustling happily from cupboard to cupboard. "Bring out
the best tumblers and silver plates, fetch up a dozen bottles of my
famous Sea-pop from the hold and we'll have this island in our pocket
before you can say Oz Robinson!"

When Ato with one tray and Roger with another came out, they found
the Captain and the Prince of the Peaks striding up and down the deck
in the friendliest conversation imaginable. Matched in height and
handsomeness, the two were discussing with lively interest everything
from ships and governments to the strange limestone that formed the
crystalline rocks of Alberif's island. Later, seated around the table
with Tandy and Roger passing plum cake and Sea-pop, the Prince grew
friendlier and more confidential still.

"We've never been conquered before," admitted his Majesty with a
puzzled smile, "but really I find it both interesting and enjoyable."

"Just a matter of chance and luck," said Samuel Salt with a modest
wave of his hand. "Had I not had balloon sails on the _Crescent Moon_,
your ship would have cut us clean in two before we had time to put
about."

"That is what I always planned would happen to an enemy craft," sighed
Alberif. "Naturally our own ship, the _Mountain Lass_, would have been
destroyed too, but we could easily have built another. That is what
we'll have to do anyway, as we'll never be able to haul her up the
torrent."

"Don't you do it," begged Samuel Salt, looking earnestly at the
Mountain Monarch. "I'll send you a set of balloon sails as soon as I
reach Elbow Island. The Red Jinn presented me with two sets and I'll be
delighted to send you one. Once they're set, you can fly up as easily
as we did and be ready for all and sundry, even US if we come again."

"Come and welcome!" beamed Alberif, looking in some surprise at Sally,
who had just lifted her head above the rim of Samuel's pipe bowl. "But
tell me, what am I to do now that I am conquered? Surely something is
required of us?"

"Nothing! Nothing at all!" Samuel spoke earnestly and admiringly. "This
island and your men are in fine shape and a great credit to you, so
just go on as you are, but from this time forth you'll be in contact
with the famous and most modern Fairyland in History, and if you are
ever beset by enemies, you can call upon Oz for assistance or help. In
time, fruit, foodstuffs, books and merchandise will arrive from Oz, and
in return you may send back some of the sparkling crystals composing
these mountains. You might even invite a band of settlers from Oz to
come and live as your loyal subjects here."

"Gladly! Gladly!" agreed the Prince, his eyes sparkling at the
prospect. "We have many uninhabited peaks and spires and could
easily accommodate a thousand new bridge builders. Come with me, all
of you, to Skytop Tower and we'll run up the flag of Oz and sign a
pledge of allegiance to her Majesty Queen Ozma. AYE DE AYE OH LAY!"
Running out on deck, Alberif joyously beckoned to the men who operated
the traveling basket, inviting them all to enter. Ato, who had no
intention of trusting his two hundred and fifty pounds to this strange
conveyance, shook the Prince regretfully by the hand.

"I'll just watch it all from here," said the ship's cook firmly. "I've
pie to cook, potatoes to peel and dinner to stir up for all hands and a
hippopotamus, so, if you'll kindly excuse me--"

The Prince looked a little disappointed, but cheered up as Samuel,
Roger and Tandy followed him into the basket.

"Haul away!" yelled Samuel Salt, winking at Ato, and to the shrill
tune of a ringing round of yodels their curious elevator rose from the
deck, spun merrily up to the Twin Peaks and highest bridge of Alberif's
Mountain. Used as he was to the tall masts and lofty rigging of the
_Crescent Moon_, Tandy felt sick and giddy as the basket swooped and
swung upward. But it came down safely at last and at sight of the
shining spans of the lacy city spread out below, and the glittering
castle rising from the royal bridge, Tandy forgot all his uneasiness.
With a little whistle of surprise and interest he followed Samuel and
Alberif into the royal dwelling, while Roger flew off on a little
exploring expedition of his own. Roger knew all about castles and was
much more interested in the many windowed, fluted cottages of the
yodelers.

Ato, watching from the deck of the _Crescent Moon_, presently saw the
flag of Oz fluttering from the top turret of the Castle Tower and with
a little sigh of relief and pride he gathered up the empty pop bottles
and padded off to his galley. Soon Oz flags floated from the posts on
all the bridgeheads, adding much to the gaiety and beauty of Alberif's
city.

From the Royal Bridge Tandy and Samuel had a splendid view, and of
his many experiences Tandy always remembered best the afternoon spent
on Peakenspire. Alberif was a merry as well as an interesting host,
explaining everything from the strange traveling baskets to the age-old
customs and treasures of the Islanders. In the baskets the Islanders
could travel from bridge to bridge and down to the sea itself when
they wished to go fishing. There was little soil between the rocks,
but such soil as there was, was so amazingly fertile, each family
could raise all the fruit and vegetables required in one small window
box. After long experimentation and culture, Alberif's ancestors had
perfected two curious vines. On one vegetables grew in rapid rotation,
potatoes following peas, corn following potatoes, carrots following
corn, beets following carrots, cabbages, lima beans and spinach after
the beets. The vine never withered or died and by cutting off the top
every day the Islanders were assured of a continuous supply of fresh
vegetables. The fruit vine was of the same variety, furnishing every
known berry, fruit and melon. Each family was given two of these vines
and thus had very little worry about food supplies. Birds, something of
a cross between wild ducks and chickens, made their nests in the craggy
peaks, and with their eggs and a plentiful supply of fish and other sea
food the Islanders fared splendidly.

The Bridgemen were tall, blue eyed, handsome and happy. Men and women
alike wore short trousers and blouses of silver cloth and carried
pikes that served both as weapons and alpenstocks. The bridges, while
delicate as fine lace in construction, were supple and strong as
steel. The material mined from the mountains themselves was like silver
and crystal combined, a new strong and glittering metal, samples of
which Samuel happily thrust into his pocket.

"Sounds like magic," said Tandy, who had been listening closely to
Alberif's description of life on Peakenspire.

"It _is_ magic of a kind," answered the Prince with a pleased little
nod. "And the air here is so light and sparkling we never tire, grow
old or have illness of any kind, so that my people are always light
hearted and happy, spending most of their time in dancing and singing."

"I see," murmured Samuel Salt, "er--and hear," he added quickly as the
wild, joyous cries of Alberif's yodelers made every window in the
palace rattle. "I'll certainly make a note of all this and report
Peakenspire Island to Queen Ozma as the most interesting discovery of
the voyage."

"I am highly honored!" Alberif bowed stiffly. "Highly honored! HI
dee Aye de OH--hhhhh!" Jumping into the air, the Prince of the Peaks
kicked his heels together from sheer exuberance. "Wait," he told
them cheerfully, "and I'll get you some fruit and vegetable vines to
take back with you." Tandy and Samuel could not help grinning as
Alberif rushed off. To tell the truth, there was something so light
and exhilarating about the mountain air they found it difficult to
walk calmly themselves. As the Prince returned Samuel felt a loud and
uncontrollable yodel rising in his own throat, and seizing Tandy's
arm, he bade Alberif a hasty and hearty adieu. Bidding him keep a
sharp lookout for the airships from Oz, and loaded down with crystals
and vines, the two explorers climbed into the basket and were swung
swiftly down to the deck of the _Crescent Moon_. Roger, flying under
his own power and yodeling like a native, arrived soon after.

With Oz flags flying from all bridges and the Mountaineers calling out
rousing and melodious farewells, Samuel inflated his balloon sails and
the ship soared gracefully aloft, circled the island three times and
then dropped lightly down upon the surface of the sea. The _Mountain
Lass_ in charge of Alberif's husky crew lay just off shore and there
she would have to stay till Samuel sent a set of balloon sails to lift
her back to the Lake among the peaks.

Nikobo, who'd been swimming anxiously round and round, gave a bellow of
relief as she spied the _Crescent Moon_.

"I thought you'd been captured and destroyed!" wheezed the
hippopotamus, scrambling hastily aboard her raft. "Next time you fly
off, take me aboard or give me a balloon sail too. I'm so full of
salt water I'm perfectly pickled and somebody'll have to scrape the
barnacles off my hide."

"But we've brought you a present," called Tandy, leaning far over the
taffrail, "a vegetable vine that will keep you supplied with fresh
vegetables as long as we're at sea. SEE! DEEEE Aye DEE OH!"

"Avast and balaydeeaye!" barked Samuel Salt grimly. "Let's get away
from here. This is no way for able-bodied seamen to talk." Rushing from
wheel to mast, he quickly set his sail. "Ahoy! Ahoy Dee Oy Dee OH!"
he yodelled, then, very red in the face, he blew three shrill blasts
on his fog horn, swung his ship about and the _Crescent Moon_, with a
spanking breeze on her quarter, went skimming away toward the southern
skyline.




CHAPTER 12

Fog


The evening had blown up raw and cold, and after carrying an old
tarpaulin down to cover Nikobo, Tandy had come shivering back to the
main cabin. Samuel Salt had close reefed his topsails and double reefed
his courses, adjusted his mechanical steering gear, and now sat beside
the fire examining a heap of the glittering crystals from Alberif's
island.

"Just sketch Peakenspire Island on the chart, there where I've made the
cross," he directed, looking up with an absent smile as the little boy
came over to warm himself at the cheerful blaze. "You're such a hand
with a brush, even in so small a place you can give a good idea of the
City of Bridges."

"And a good idea they are," murmured Ato, who was busy mending his
fishing nets on the other side of the fireplace. "In every port we
learn something new, eh, Mate? All mountains, no matter how high and
peaked, could be lived on if they were properly bridged."

"True, quite true," agreed Samuel, squinting contentedly through his
magnifying glass, while Tandy began sketching in the latest discovery
on the sea chart. "I've written it all up in my journal and put down
Peakenspire Island as able to accommodate a thousand settlers from Oz
and as an especially good place for poets."

"Provided they are deaf," put in Ato, looking comically over his specs,
"AYE DEE AYE DEE OH! While you fellows were aloft I got to yodeling so
fast and furious I blew all the sauce pans off their hooks."

"Yes, that _is_ one disadvantage," admitted Samuel, glancing
approvingly at Tandy's picture of Alberif's Island, "but never mind,
we don't have to live there, and think of the splendid specimens we've
brought away, Mates!" Samuel ran his fingers lovingly through the heap
of crystals and strands of metal Alberif had given him. "And those
fruit and vegetable vines will provision us for the whole voyage."

"They're a great comfort to _me_, I assure you," muttered Ato, holding
up his net to the light to see whether there were any more holes. "Now
I know Kobo will never starve. I put a vegetable vine in a box on her
raft and that leaves two for us, two for Ozma, and maybe Tandy would
like to take the other two home with him?"

"Home?" Tandy swung round in positive dismay. "Oh--we're not near
Ozamaland yet, are we, Captain?" His voice sounded so dismal Samuel
Salt threw down his magnifying glass with a roar of merriment.

"Shiver my timbers, lad, one would think you did not wish to reach
Ozamaland at all," he blustered teasingly. "What's the matter with that
country of yours? You wouldn't keep an honest explorer from adding a
creeping bird and a flying reptile to his collection, now would ye?"

"No! No! Of course not," answered Tandy quickly. "But perhaps it is
farther away than you think, Master Salt, and perhaps the Greys have
conquered the Whites and then I won't be King any more."

"What's this? What's this?" Ato lifted his nose like an old hound that
has just scented a fox, for he loved a good story even better than he
loved a good meal. "Who are the Greys and Whites, my lad? You never
told us anything about this."

"There's really not much to tell," sighed Tandy, seating himself on a
small stool before the fire. "In the first place, I suppose you know
that the great continent of Tarara is divided into two large long
countries? Ozamaland is on the East Coast and Amaland on the West
Coast."

"Now I'll just make a note of that," said Samuel Salt, leaning over to
pull his journal toward him.

"My country," went on Tandy slowly, "is made up largely of desert and
jungle, best known for its white elephants and camels and the famous
White City of Om, first King and ruler of the Kingdom. The Zamas are
fierce and still wild tribesmen living in tents on the desert and in
huts in the jungle. Only the thousand Nobles and their families who
live in the White City have been taught to read and write and live
under roofs. That is why the Kings of Ozamaland are so well guarded and
never allowed out of the capital."

"Then I'd rather be a tribesman," sniffed Ato, letting his nets drop in
a heap around his feet.

"But there's no choice," said Tandy thoughtfully. "The nine
Ozamandarins who make the laws have decreed that the King shall remain
in the White City."

"Well, what about these Whites and Greys?" asked Samuel Salt, pulling
out his pipe and leaning down close to the fire so Sally could light it
for him.

"My people, because they dress in white robes and turbans, are known
as the Whites, and the Amas, the rough plainsmen who rove the long
ranges of Amaland, are the Greys. The Amas care for nothing but their
swift grey horses and often charge over the border to make war on my
countrymen. Then the Whites, mounted on their white elephants and
camels, have all they can do to hold their own."

"Aha, that's what I'd call a REAL battle!" exclaimed Ato, his
eyes snapping with enthusiasm and interest. Then, noting Samuel's
disapproving frown, he pursed up his lips, shook his head and added
quickly, "All very wild and disorderly, Tandy, my lad. Seems as if the
Whites and Greys should manage their affairs more peaceably."

"Yes," said Tandy solemnly, "and I've often thought when I was grown,
I'd ride over on my white elephant to visit the Greys and see why they
are so unfriendly."

"A good idea, and if I were you, I wouldn't wait till I was grown. I'd
do it as soon as I got back," advised Samuel Salt, taking a long pull
at his pipe.

"And very probably get himself cut up and captured," shuddered Ato,
shaking his head.

"Well, he's been both shut up and captured anyway, hasn't he?" said
Samuel mildly. "Now which one of your aunts do you think had you
carried off, Matey, and how many aunts do you have anyway?"

"Three," Tandy answered, counting them off solemnly on his fingers.
"And they were all pretty and pleasant enough; but after the prophecy
of the Old Man of the Jungle that I would be carried off by an aunt,
they were all locked up in the castle dungeon and I was locked up in
the Tower." And, resting his elbows on his knees, Tandy gazed soberly
into the fire as if he might discover there the reason for his cruel
abduction and imprisonment in the jungle.

"If I'd only been awake when I was carried away," he exclaimed
impatiently.

"They probably gave you a sleeping potion," decided Ato, nodding his
head portentously, "but it's such a longish distance, unless this aunt
had wings or a flying eagle I'll never understand how she shipped you
so far and so fast."

"Well, whoever it was did _us_ a real service!" boomed Samuel Salt,
twinkling his blue eyes affectionately at Tandy. "Even Peter was no
better aboard a ship--eh, Mate?"

"A real artist and a seaman," agreed Ato, rolling cheerfully to his
feet, "and when we reach Ozamaland I'll talk to these aunts like
an Octagon uncle, and the Ozamandarins had better hold on to their
turbans, too."

"But they wear square hats!" roared Tandy, laughing so hard he almost
fell off the stool, for he just could not picture the fat King of the
Octagon Isle berating the haughty judges of Ozamaland.

"What's the joke?" demanded Roger, flying in through the open port
and making a straight line for the fire. "Brrr-rah! Wet weather,
boys! Wet weather! Oh, what a coldth and dampth and gloomth. Why, I'm
moister than an oyster and clammier than a clam. How about a cup of hot
chocolate for the Watch, Cook dear? Better see to your sail, Master
Salt. Fog's thicker than bean soup out there."

"We'll _all_ have some chocolate," said Ato as Samuel hurried out to
see how dense the fog really was. Later, sitting by the stove sipping
Ato's delicious hot chocolate, Tandy could not help comparing this cozy
life aboard the _Crescent Moon_ with his dull and lonely existence in
the Royal City of his Fathers.

"I wish the Greys _would_ capture the Whites," he thought vindictively,
as he followed Roger across the slippery deck. "Then I'd never have to
leave this ship." The kind-hearted Read Bird was carrying a pail of hot
chocolate down to Nikobo on the raft. She could not get her great snout
into the bucket, but she opened her enormous mouth and with one toss
Roger poured the whole pail down her throat.

"That'll keep her warm till morning," chuckled Roger, flying back to
join Tandy, "and now you'd better turn in, little fellow, for you're on
morning watch and eight bells will be sounding before you know it!" All
through his dreams about the Whites and Greys Tandy heard the raucous
voice of the fog horn, and when he rolled sleepily out of his bunk to
relieve Ato, the ship seemed to be hardly moving at all.

"Ahoy, Captain! Isn't a fog dangerous?" Tandy's voice seemed more
hopeful than worried, and Samuel Salt, peering down at the little boy
buttoned to his chin in Peter's old sou'easter, grinned approvingly.

"Just about as dangerous as a man-eating tiger," he answered
cheerfully. "We're liable to ram a ship, run on the rocks, or scrape
our bottom on a hidden reef or sand bar. These waters, as you know,
being all unnavigated. But I've brought Sally along to keep my nose
warm and throw a bit more light on the subject and we'll have to take
our chance--eh, Matey? Just step aft and see if you can make out
anything astern, will you, Tandy?"

Four o'clock, or rather eight bells, was always pretty dark and one had
to depend more or less on the ship's lanterns, but this morning was
the darkest Tandy had ever experienced. Clinging to the rail, he moved
cautiously to the stern and gazed intently down into the gloom. Nothing
an inch beyond his nose was visible and as for the raft and Nikobo,
they might just as well not have been there.

"Kobo, Kobo, are you all right?" There was no answer to Tandy's call,
but presently a huge and resounding snore rolled upward and, greatly
comforted, Tandy hurried back to the Captain. Samuel Salt was busy
lighting extra lanterns and as he straightened up, a hollow boom,
followed by a splintering crash, sent them both sprawling to the deck.
Leaping to his feet and unmindful of the glass from the shattered
lanterns, Samuel seized an unbroken one and ran furiously to the rail.

"Ship ahoy! Heave to! you blasted son of a cuttle-fish lubber! You've
rammed us amidships, you blasted Billygoat. Where are your lights? Why
didn't ye sound the horn?" His lantern, held far over the rail, made
no impression at all on the choking fog. Jumping up and running after
Samuel, Tandy strained his eyes for a glimpse of the ship that had hit
them, for unmistakably to his ears came the scrape and rasp of wood on
wood. Yes, surely it was a ship. But no answer to Samuel's hail came
out of the fog, only the swish and murmur of the sea and the rattle
of wind in the rigging. But all this creaking could not come from the
_Crescent Moon_ alone. There _was_ a ship beyond them in the fog,
but where, as Samuel had demanded, were her lights and crew? Wildly
Tandy, hardly knowing what to think or do, continued to blink into the
maddening darkness. Ato and Roger, wakened by the horrible jolt, now
came hurrying out, each waving a lantern.

"Let go the anchor, Mates," ordered Samuel in a stern voice, "we're to
grips with an enemy ship, so stand by for trouble. Further shortening
his sail, Samuel waited tensely for the first move from their invisible
foe.

"Might be pirates," he whispered out of the corner of his mouth to
Tandy, who stood close beside him grasping the scimiter that had once
been Peter's. "Jump the first man aboard."

"How about a long shot in their general direction?" wheezed Ato, who
found the silence and suspense well nigh unbearable.

"No, it is not for _us_ to start a fight," stated Samuel grimly. "But
hah! Just let _them_ start one! Fetch me my stilts, Roger, and be quick
about it, too!"

"Stilts?" choked the Read Bird, dropping the blunderbuss with which he
had armed, or rather winged, himself. "You'll never be trying those
things again--they nearly shivered our timbers last time. Why take
another chance?"

"My stilts!" repeated Samuel savagely, and Roger, who knew his duty
as a sailor, flew without further argument to the hold. When Roger
returned with a stilt in each claw, the Captain grasped one and moving
silently as a cat over to the port rail, he thrust the long pole
experimentally out into the fog. There was an instant thud, and Samuel
himself got a severe jolt as the stilt struck against some firm and
immovable object beyond. Convinced that it was an enemy ship, Samuel
returned to the others and, drawn up in an anxious row, the four
shipmates waited for the fog to lift or the first enemy seaman to leap
aboard.

"I'll wager it's a derelict, or an abandoned vessel with no crew,"
breathed Ato, seating himself on a fire bucket to somewhat ease the
long wait. The first hour Tandy stood fairly well, but the second
seemed interminable. The flickering lanterns, the tense quiet, the
choking fog and gentle roll of the ship all made him desperately
drowsy, and, much to his later disgust, he must have finally fallen
asleep. The next thing he remembered was the shrill squall of the Read
Bird and the pleasant feel of the sun on his eyelids.

"The ship! The pirates! The fog!" thought Tandy, springing up wildly,
but neither ship nor pirates met his astonished gaze. Abaft the beam
lay a great whispering deep sea forest, its trees higher than the masts
of the ship, springing directly out of the water and stretching their
leafy branches to the sky. It was into one of these giant greenwoods
the _Crescent Moon_ had crashed in the fog. Samuel was staring at the
sea forest with the rapt look of a scientist who has just made an
unbelievable discovery, and Ato, with his elbows resting on the rail,
was gazing dreamily in the same direction.

"'Hoy! Ahoy! Why, I never knew there were forests in the sea,"
exclaimed Tandy, running over to insinuate himself between the cook and
the Captain.

"There aren't! It's just plain impossible!" breathed Ato, moving over
to make room for Tandy. "But, impossible or not, there she lies. And
isn't it pretty?" he mused, resting more than half of his great weight
on the rail.

"I suppose Sammy'll want to dig up a sea tree and bring it along," he
leaned over to whisper mischievously in Tandy's ear. "And anyway, it's
better than pirates."

"Look, look, there's fish in those trees," screamed Roger, bouncing
up and down on Ato's plump shoulder. "How about some flying fish for
breakfast, Cook dear?"

"Breakfast? Breakfast? Can it really be time for breakfast? Ho, hum! I
thought I was still asleep and dreaming," grunted Ato, giving himself a
little shake. "Well, forests or no forests, a man must eat, I suppose!"
And still gazing delightedly over his shoulder, the ship's cook trod
reluctantly toward the galley, while Tandy hurried into the cabin for
his paints.




CHAPTER 13

The Sea Forest


Tandy had to call Samuel twice before he would come to breakfast and
when he finally did sit down, he was so busy preparing to explore the
sea forest he ate scarcely a bite.

"We'll take the jolly boat," he decided, making long notes in his
journal between his sips of coffee, "the small nets and knives and
baskets for cuttings and any specimens we may pick up and--"

"Why the jolly boat when we have a jolly sea-going hippopotamus?"
inquired Roger, elevating one eyebrow. "A jolly hippopotamus, I might
add, who runs under her own power and saves us the trouble of rowing!"
Roger was much annoyed because he had failed to catch a flying fish
before breakfast and instead of eating his hard-boiled eggs, kept
winging over to the open port to glare at his finny rivals. Tandy, like
the Captain, was too excited to eat, and even Ato downed his omelette
and fresh strawberries from the Peakenspire fruit vine with rare speed
and indifference.

"It's a lucky thing you're so enormous, Kobo," puffed the ship's cabin
boy, dropping down on the raft a few minutes later. "Ato's got his crab
nets and fishing lines, Samuel's bringing an aquarium, a couple of
baskets and a box. And I have this pail, my paints and a cage in case
Roger does manage to catch one of those flying fish." Kobo was staring
fixedly at her vegetable vine as Tandy dropped down beside her, and now
snapping off a whole bushel of beans, she turned round and, munching
contentedly, surveyed the excited boy at her side.

"Whatever you have can be hung to my harness," she assured him,
speaking a bit thickly through the beans. "But turn the point of that
scimiter up instead of down; you wouldn't want to carve old Kobo, now
would you? It will seem funny swimming through a forest, won't it,
little King? The further we go on this voyage the queerer everything
grows."

"But I like it queer," stated Tandy, climbing with a satisfied little
sigh on Nikobo's broad back.

"I, too, find it most interesting and jolly," agreed the hippopotamus,
fastening her eyes dreamily on the vegetable vine to see what was
coming up next. "I thought I might be on short rations when I came on
this voyage, Tandy, but I declare to goodness I've never had such a
rich and varied diet in my life. You, too, look fine and strong and
much happier than when we met in the jungle. But to get back to the
fare--why, today I've had a basket of biscuits, a bushel of beans--"

"And that makes it Bean and Biscuit Day, I suppose," giggled Tandy,
remembering Kobo's strange way of dividing up her week. "But look!
Listen! Here they come!"

"Ahoy below, Hip Hip OPOTOMUS, AHOY!" roared Samuel Salt jovially from
above. "All ready to cast off, my lass?"

"Aye, aye, sir!" grinned Kobo as Samuel and Ato came panting down the
rope ladders to the raft. "Move over, Tandy, and make room for the Cook
and the Captain!" It took nearly ten minutes to get all the gear and
crew aboard and Nikobo looked like some curious deep sea monster when
she finally shoved off. Two large baskets were slung from ropes across
her back. The pail and bird cage slapped up and down on one hip, the
aquarium on the other, and through her collar various fishing rods,
nets and poles were stuck like quills on a porcupine.

"Now whatever you do, don't submerge," warned Samuel, holding his tin
box for especially fragile specimens high above his chest to keep it
dry. "Just slow and steady, m'lass, so we'll have time to observe and
admire and make notes of any strange growths and creatures as we ride
along."

"Creatures!" exclaimed Tandy, twisting round. He was perched on
Nikobo's head, his paints held carefully in his lap. "Would there be
any wild animals in a sea forest, Master Salt?"

"Sea Lions, likely," predicted Samuel, peering round eagerly as Nikobo
paddled between two slippery barked sea trees into the murmuring forest
itself. Except for the fact that the floor of this curious sea wood was
the blue and restless sea, it might almost have been a forest ashore.
The trees, tall, straight and stately, towered up toward the sky.
Staring down into the clear green water, Tandy saw their trunks going
down, down, down as far as he could see.

"Rooted in the very ocean bed," marveled Samuel Salt, touching one
lovingly as they passed. "What splendid masts these would make, Mates!
Avast and belay, Nikobo, I believe I'll just take a cutting or two."

"Ha, ha!" roared Ato, peering over Samuel's shoulder. "So now we're
going to grow our own masts."

Samuel himself, leaning far out over Nikobo's back, severed three young
shoots from the sea tree and popped them happily into the aquarium.
Vines that were really of coral ringed the gigantic trunks like
bracelets, and the leaves of the trees were long ribbons of green and
silver that whipped and fluttered like banners in the morning breeze.

"What's that?" puzzled Ato as the hippopotamus made her way leisurely
between the trees. "Looks like mushrooms, Sammy! Wait, I'll just pick
me a few and see." Hooking his heels in Nikobo's harness, Ato began
vigorously cutting from the trunk of one of the trees the colored
fungus growths which sprouted in great profusion just above the
water line. Nikobo bravely offered to sample some, and after waiting
anxiously to see whether they would have any ill effects the ship's
cook decided they were harmless and joyfully filled one of the baskets.
The only specimens that really interested Ato were of the edible
variety. While he was thus employed, Tandy, an experienced climber
by now, scurried up to the top of one of the sea trees, breaking off
several branches so Samuel could press the curious leaves in his
album. High above his head Tandy could see Roger chasing angrily after
a flying fish, muttering with anger at his unsuccessful efforts to
overtake the nimble little sea bird. In our own southern waters there
are large flying fish that leap out of the water of the gulf stream,
but the flying fish in this Nonestic Sea Forest were small, and where
most fish have gills wore strong transparent wings. Their claws,
somewhat like a crab's, made it possible for them to perch jauntily in
the branches of the sea trees, and these strange little fellows could
swim and dive as well as fly. Pulling out his pad, Tandy made a lively
sketch of one in the tree opposite, for it did look as if Roger would
never succeed in catching one.

All morning Nikobo paddled calmly through the dreamy sea forest; Samuel
making notes, Tandy sketches, and Ato catching in his long-handled
nets plump little fish and crabs, and filling another basket with the
small delicious clams that clung like barnacles to the slippery bark
of the sea trees. In the shadowy center of the forest where the trees
pressed closer together and great flat rocks stuck their heads out of
the water, the explorers came upon several fierce sea lions. They were
not smooth and shiny like the seals of our own oceans, but yellow and
tawny with long yellow tusks, tufted tails and scaly manes. Their front
legs ended in sharp claws, their back legs were shorter and their feet
were webbed for swimming. Only the fact that Nikobo was larger and more
frightening to the sea lions than they were to her saved the party from
a savage attack by these malicious-looking monsters. As it was, they
retired sullenly into the deeper shadows, snarling and roaring defiance
as they backed away, but not before Tandy had made an effective sketch
of the whole group.

"'Tis a lucky thing for us that you're along!" grunted Ato, drawing
his feet up out of the water and looking with grim disfavor after the
snarling sea lions. "Likely as not, if you had not made that picture,
Samuel would have tried to drag one along by its tail, regardless of
our feelings or safety."

"A wild maned sea lion would be a valuable addition to any collection,"
sighed Samuel Salt, shaking his head regretfully. "But then--" he
grinned in his sudden pleasant way, "not much of a mascot at that."

The only other happening of note was Roger's capture of a monkey fish.
Unable to overtake a flying fish, the Read Bird had pounced on this
small combination of a land and water beast as it sat quietly sunning
itself on the limb of a tree. Screaming and chattering, he bore it
proudly down to the Captain, and Samuel was so pleased with the curious
little creature that when Nikobo suggested going back he made no
serious objection. And as the hippopotamus, rather weary from her
long swim, headed thankfully back for the ship Tandy and Samuel made
ambitious plans for the monkey fish's care and comfort.

Thrusting it into Tandy's bird cage, Samuel regarded it with increasing
enthusiasm and interest. "I'll rig up a wooden tree in one of the
aquariums, set the aquarium in one of the large cages so it'll have
both air and water, and call it 'Roger' after its discoverer," beamed
the former Pirate with a wink at Tandy.

"Don't you dare call that monkey fish after me," screeched the Read
Bird, flying round to have another look at his strange prize. "Why,
it's uglier than a blue monkey, looks like a regular goblin, if you ask
me." And to tell the truth, the monkey fish _was_ even uglier than a
goblin, shaped like a monkey but scaled all over, and with unpleasant
goggly eyes and three short spikes sticking out of its forehead.

"It does look like a goblin," agreed Tandy with an amused sniff. "But
let's call it Mo-fi, which is short for fish and monkey."

"Tip tops'ls!" approved Samuel Salt, taking out his note book. "Wonder
what it eats?"

"Great grandmothers, what would it eat?" moaned Ato, looking blankly at
Samuel. "Another mouth to feed and listen to! Dear, Dear and DEAR!"

"Oh, give it a box of animal crackers," put in Roger carelessly.

"No, I brought along some gold fish food for just such an emergency as
this," declared Samuel, making a little flourish with his pencil as he
wrote busily in his journal. "Gold fish food will be splendid for a
monkey fish."

"Well, don't forget the bananas--for remember it's a monkey, too,"
chirped Roger, settling on the Captain's shoulder to read what he had
written. So, laughing and joking and in the highest good humor the
exploring party returned to the _Crescent Moon_.

What with planting the slips from the sea tree, settling Mo-fi in his
aquarium cage, pressing the leaves from the marine forest, and making
copies and further notes about the sea lions in his journal, Samuel did
not get his ship under way till late afternoon.

Ramming into the sea tree, beyond scraping off some paint, had done
little damage, so singing boisterously, Samuel finally heaved up his
anchor. And soon, with Ato stirring up a huge clam chowder, Tandy
painting the sea forest on the chart and Roger scouring the hold for
Mo-fi's fish food, the _Crescent Moon_ again dipped adventurously into
the southeast swell.




CHAPTER 14

The Sea Unicorn!


"Ahoy! and how goes it with the able-bodied seaman?" called Roger,
swooping down from the foremast. Tandy, polishing the brass trim on the
binnacle, looked up with a welcoming grin.

"Tip topsails!" he answered, pausing a minute to stare off toward the
skyline to see whether any islands or sea serpents were visible.

"And look at that muscle, now," marveled Roger, touching Tandy's arm
admiringly with his claw. "You're twice the lad you were, Mate, and
I'll wager my last feather you can lay any lubber by the heels. If
anyone gets fresh-water ashore, remember you're a salt sea-going sailor
and you just take a poke at him. That's my advice without any charge or
obligation. But then again, a chap that's a King, the Royal Artist of
an exploring expedition, with a sea forest named after him, might not
need to take any advice at all," added Roger with a long and knowing
wink.

"But I like you to tell me things," said Tandy, looking earnestly up
at the Read Bird. "You make everything seem so interesting and jolly."
With a secret smile, for Tandy was thinking how much he would enjoy
taking a poke at Didjabo, the Chief Ozamandarin, the little boy went
on with his polishing. If Didjabo said anything further about shutting
him up in the Tower, he just plain would take a poke at him. But saying
nothing of all this to Roger, he called up cheerfully, "How's Mo-fi?
Has he stopped scolding and begun to eat?"

Roger, who was running races with himself up and down the taffrail,
stopped short and held up his claw. "Everything I give him," he told
Tandy solemnly. "And I declare to badness he's getting to know me,
Mate. He only pulled out three feathers instead of a fistful when I
gave him breakfast just now. Before long he'll be so tame he'll be
riding around on your shoulder."

"Not MY shoulder," laughed Tandy, waving his bottle of polish at the
Read Bird. "Goodness, I believe you're growing fond of that monkey
fish, Roger."

"Well, why not?" retorted the Read Bird, puffing up his chest. "Ato has
me, the Captain has Sally, you have Kobo, so why shouldn't I have a
little pet if I want one?"

The monkey fish seemed such a strange prickly sort of pet, Tandy could
hardly keep his face straight, but seeing Roger was quite in earnest,
he tactfully changed the subject. "Do you suppose we'll make any new
discoveries today?" he asked, screwing the cap on the bottle of polish.
"Any as important as the sea forest, I mean?"

"Why not call it by its proper name?" teased Roger, scratching his head
with his left claw. "And I think it most unlikely we'll strike anything
as curious and important as Tazander Forest. Two discoveries like that
just couldn't happen two days running. Still, I'll just fly up to the
main truck and have a look around."

"Main truck?" Tandy wrinkled up his brows. "I thought I knew all the
parts of this ship by now. You never told me about the main truck,
Roger."

"Just the top of the main mast, Brainless." Giving Tandy an
affectionate little shove, Roger soared into the rigging and Tandy went
joyfully off to have another look at the forest Samuel had insisted
on naming after him. He had taken great pains with the painting and
printing when he sketched it on the map, and now with a sigh of
complete satisfaction he stood regarding the sea chart. Then, suddenly
remembering he had promised to water Samuel Salt's plants, he jog
trotted contentedly down to the hold.

The tumbleweeds in their small red pots grew so rapidly Samuel had
to cut them back every day. These Tandy watered very sparingly,
snapping his fingers at Mo-fi, who was gravely chinning himself on a
branch of his artificial tree. The slips of the sea trees in their
covered aquarium required no attention at all. Ato had planted all the
vegetable and fruit vines from Peakenspire on the rail outside the
galley, so that left only the creeping vines from Patrippany Island to
care for. He had just picked up one of the small potted creepers when
a sharp rap tap under his toes made Tandy leap straight up in the air.
Someone was knocking on the bottom of the boat.

"Ato! Captain! ROGER!" shrilled the little boy, scurrying up from the
hold faster than he had ever done before.

"Su--su--SOMEBODY'S knocking on the bottom of the boat." Before he
could explain, or tell them anything further, a perfectly terrific
knock from below made the _Crescent Moon_ shiver from end to end.
Samuel and Ato, leaning over the port rail, turned round so suddenly
they bumped their heads smartly together. Next with a scrape, screech
and splintering of timber, a giant white horn came tearing up through
the decks.

"Whale! Whale!" croaked Roger, falling off the main truck and coasting
crazily down to the deck. "Wha--what ever'n ever's that?" he quavered,
pointing a trembling claw at the rigid white column between the main
and mizzenmasts. Samuel did not even try to explain, for at that
instant the ship began to rise, to fall, to lash and plunge both up
and down and east and west. Hooking his arms through the rail, Tandy
blinked, gasped and shudderingly waited for the _Crescent Moon_ to fly
asunder.

"Narwhal, Mates!" panted Samuel Salt, throwing himself bodily upon the
wheel. "Horn like a--uni--corn--branch of the Odontocetes and--"

"Oh--you--don't say--it--is!" chattered Ato, who was lying on his
stomach bouncing up and down like a ball at each frightful lunge of the
monstrous fish. "Well, it's spiked us--is that a horn or a ship's mast?
Oh woe, oh! What'n salt'll we do now?"

Samuel had not the heart to answer, for he had all he could do to
hang on to the wheel as the ship, like a wounded animal, reared and
plunged, thrashing the sea to a fury of foam and spray. Nikobo,
diving precipitously off her raft, began to squeal in high and low
hippopotamy, making brave but ineffective lunges at the lashing giant
beneath the ship.

"Su--suppose it su--submerges?" wailed Ato, who had managed at last to
seize a rope from the end of which he banged and slammed continuously
up and down against the deck. "Oh, my stars! Oh, my spars! Oh, my
beams and--" Tandy never heard Ato's last anguished cry, for at that
moment a savage shake of the Narwhal's head sent him flying into the
sea. Coming up coughing and choking, Tandy instinctively began to swim
and for the first time became aware of the creeping vine he still had
clutched tightly in one hand. And in that instant and in that whirl of
danger, disaster and destruction, the little boy suddenly grew calm
and purposeful. This vine--well, why would this powerful vine from
Patrippany Island not work as well under water as on land? The chances
were that it would. Swimming boldly back to the ship, Tandy took a
quick dive, hurling the vine pot and all in the general direction of
the Narwhal. No sooner had the vine touched the water than it began
to open, creep and grow and, spraying out a hundred strong tentacles,
it seized and bound the plunging monster in a secure and inescapable
cradle of leafy wood.

Gasping and sputtering, but with his heart pounding with joy to think
he had really saved Samuel's beautiful ship, Tandy rose to the surface.
Nikobo, letting off shrill blasts of anger and fright, came paddling
anxiously toward him. But giving the hippopotamus a reassuring wave,
Tandy seized the end of a rope ladder and pulled himself up to the deck.

Samuel, though battered and bruised, still clung to the wheel, and Ato,
almost pounded to a jelly, had rolled into the scuppers where Roger
was fanning him vigorously with a butter paddle. The Read Bird, having
wings, could have left the ship at any time, but had clung bravely to
his post, preferring to go down with the ship and his shipmates. Now
all three of them stared in dazed silence at Tandy as he climbed back
over the rail, for in the terrible confusion and excitement no one had
seen him go overboard.

"Tandy! Tandy! Where've you been?" With outstretched arms Samuel Salt
rushed groggily forward. "Shiver my liver! Why's everything so quiet?
Could it be that you single-handed have destroyed that ship-shaking
menace?"

"I don't think he's destroyed, Master Salt," answered Tandy, limping
happily to meet the Captain, "but he's caught fast as a lobster in a
lobster pot and can't move at all."

"Caught?" rasped Samuel, running across the deck to peer over the rail.

"By the creeping vine," explained Tandy, and in short, breathless
sentences he told them all that had happened after he was flung into
the sea.

"Well, bagpipe my mizzenmain sails!" gasped Samuel Salt, staring at
Tandy with round eyes. "This is the strangest and happiest day of my
life. You've saved the ship and the whole expedition, my boy, and all
we have to do now is cut loose from this cavorting unicorn of the sea
and sail off with the largest ivory horn in captivity. An ivory mast,
blast my buckles! Wait till the Ozites see us sailing up the Winkie
River with four masts instead of three! Ahoy, below! Ahoy, Kobo! Can
you dive with me beneath this ship?"

"Dive and stay under as long as you can," vowed the hippopotamus,
shaking the water out of her eyes and looking cheerily up at the
Captain. "You see, I was right about those creeping vines, now wasn't
I?" Nikobo, having done a little investigating on her own account, was
well nigh ready to burst with pride at Tandy's quick action and the way
in which the vines had overcome their gigantic foe.

"RIGHT!" boomed Samuel Salt, hurrying off for his oxygen helmet and
powerful diamond toothed saw. Ato was too bruised and exhausted to
rise, but Tandy and Roger, perching on the ship's rail, watched Samuel
in his queer diver's helmet climb down the rope ladder and clamber
up on the hippopotamus. Next minute Nikobo had disappeared under the
surface and presently from the slight shiver and shake of the boat
they knew that Samuel was determinedly at work cutting them loose.
Fortunately there was room between the ship's bottom and the whale's
head for Nikobo to swim about, and so splintering sharp was Samuel's
saw that in less than five minutes he had cut off the great column of
ivory level with the ship's bottom, carefully calking the edges with
material he had brought down. In its tight and live wood crate the
Narwhal could not stir an inch, and, while the cutting of its horn was
not painful, it blubbered and spouted so terrifically that Samuel and
Nikobo heaved tremendous sighs of relief when the dangerous operation
was accomplished.

Backing off a few paces, Nikobo began butting the crated sea beast with
her head till she had driven it out from beneath the boat. Roger and
Tandy, with little shrieks of wonder and excitement, saw the crated
fish like some queer and monstrous mummy rise to the surface and go
floating sullenly away toward the east. Now that they had a full view
of the Narwhal they saw that it was three times the length of the
_Crescent Moon_.

"A great wonder Sammy didn't tie it to the ship and tow it along,"
sighed Ato, who had at last got to his feet and draped himself weakly
over the rail. "Some fishin'--eh, Mates?"

"But look at the beautiful mast we have!" cried Tandy, waving to Nikobo
and the Captain as they came cheerfully alongside.

"Huh! you're as bad as Sammy," grunted Ato, rubbing his bruises
sorrowfully. "And of course a mast was just what we were needing! Whale
of a mast! Mast of a whale! HUH!"




CHAPTER 15

The Collector Is Collected


"What are you going to call this one?" inquired Tandy next morning as
he and Samuel squinted thoughtfully up at the gleaming ivory column
between the main and mizzenmasts.

"Might call it the whalemast," said Samuel, rubbing his chin
reflectively. "And it's a lucky thing for us the point was sharp enough
to cut through the decks without damaging the ship. At any rate, it's
given us the biggest fish story a voyager ever had to relate. Tossed
on the horn of a Narwhal! And the best part of the whole story is that
we have the proof right along with us. Hah! Right here!" Samuel in his
glee and exuberance gave the whalemast a hearty slap.

"Kobo says that vine won't unwind for a couple of days, but anyway
it'll be a fine rest for the whale floating around without having to
swim. And I expect it can grow another horn?"

"I expect so," agreed Samuel, winking down at Sally, who was standing
on her head in the bowl of his pipe. "If this little Lady would just
talk, she could give us a heap of valuable information about life in
Lavaland, Mate."

"Roger's taught Mo-fi to say 'Ship ahoy!'" observed Tandy, strolling
over to the rail to watch the white foam sweep past the ship's side.
"And your sea tree sprays have grown an inch since yesterday, Captain."

"They have?" Samuel blew three rings from his pipe, then walked aft
to glance at the compass. "Well, my boy, if the rest of the voyage
is as good as the beginning, we'll sail home loaded to the gun'ls."
The mention of home always made Tandy wince, for the _Crescent Moon_
was the first real home he had known. To think that he would be put
ashore in Ozamaland while Samuel's ship would continue its adventurous
voyage of discovery without him, was a fact almost too terrible to
consider.

"Maybe we'll never come to Ozamaland at all," mused Tandy as he climbed
into the rigging to join Roger. "Maybe the Captain's reckoning is wrong
and Ozamaland is to the north instead of the south." Vastly comforted
by this idea, Tandy swung nimbly to the crosstree on the fore t'gallant
mast. Roger was staring intently through Ato's telescope and as Tandy
squirmed along to a position beside him, the Read Bird let out a shrill
squall, all his head feathers standing straight on end.

"What do you see? What is it?" cried the little King, shading his eyes
with his hands and staring in all directions. "I can't see a thing."

"Take the glasses," urged Roger, handing them over with a frightened
gulp. "Take the glasses and then tell me it isn't so." Tandy, scarcely
knowing what to expect, screwed his eye close to the telescope, then
he, too, gave a shriek of consternation.

"Why--it's a big HOLE, a HOLE in the sea!" he stuttered, lowering the
glasses and staring at the Read Bird in blank dismay.

"Exactly!" croaked the Read Bird, "and whoever heard of such a thing? A
hole in the ground, certainly, but a hole in the sea, why that's just
plain past believing. Ahoy, DECK AHOY!" Wagging his head, Roger lifted
his voice in a long warning wail. "Heave to, Master Salt! Heave to!
Danger on the bow!"

Somewhat surprised, but without stopping to question Roger, in whom
he had the utmost confidence, Samuel hove his vessel to. And not a
moment too soon, for barely a ship's length away yawned an immense
and unexplainable hole in the sea. Round its edges the waves frothed,
tossed and bubbled, making no impression on that quiet curious vacuum
of air. Crowding into the bow, the ship's company stared down in
complete wonder and mystification.

"Now, goosewing my topsails, this'll bear looking into!" puffed Samuel,
breaking the silence at last.

"Now, now, NOW!" Ato snatched wildly at Samuel's coat tails as he
raced aft bellowing loudly for Kobo to come alongside. "You'll not go
a step off this boat. We can sail round this air hole and no damage
done, but as for looking into it! Help, HELP! Avast and belay and I'll
knock eight bells out of anyone who leaves this ship!" Seizing an iron
belaying pin, Ato made a desperate rush after Samuel Salt, and failing
to catch him before he slid down the cable to Kobo's raft, he grabbed
Tandy firmly and angrily by the seat of the pants. "Not a step!" panted
the ship's cook savagely. "Not a step! Roger! Roger! Come back here
this instant." But Roger, with a screech of defiance, had already flown
after Samuel. Tandy, pinned against the rail by Ato's two hundred
and fifty pounds, was forced to watch Nikobo, with Roger and Samuel
on her back, moving cautiously toward the edge of the air hole. Over
his shoulder Samuel had a huge coil of rope the end of which he had
attached to the capstan of the boat before he dropped over the side.

"Oh! Oh! and OH!" wheezed the ship's cook, "If Sammy goes down that
cavern we're as good as lost. No one to navigate, to up sail or down
sail or lay to in a storm. My, My and MYland!"

"Well, there he goes!" cried Tandy as Samuel flung the rope down into
the sea hole. "Don't worry, Ato, he's always come back before, hasn't
he? Let me go! Let me go, I tell you!" With a sudden jerk Tandy tore
out of Ato's grasp, climbed up on the rail and dove into the sea.
Swimming rapidly toward the hippopotamus, he climbed on her back and
with Roger fluttering in excited circles overhead Nikobo swam as
close to the edge of the sea hole as she dared, watching in terrified
fascination as Samuel calmly lowered himself into the clouded blue
depths. With mingled feelings of interest and alarm, Tandy saw the
Royal Explorer of Oz go down lower and lower and finally disappear
altogether into the deep blue air below. Now not a glimpse of Samuel
was visible and not a sound came up to reassure them that he was still
there.

"I'll just fly down and see what's up," quavered Roger, and in spite
of the loud shouts and threats of Ato on the _Crescent Moon_, the Read
Bird spread his wings and coasted slowly and bravely into the immense
air shaft. Nikobo, now as alarmed as the ship's cook, began swimming
frantically round the edge of the misty chasm, letting out piercing
blasts that sounded like nothing so much as a ferry boat whistle.
Tandy himself felt uneasy and frightened and Ato, unable to bear the
suspense any longer, climbed over the side and came swimming out to
join them. After an endless fifteen minutes, during which dreadful fear
and premonition gripped the watchers, the head of the Read Bird popped
mournfully into view.

"Is he all right? Where's Sammy? What in soup's he doing? What'd you
find out?" gasped Ato, reaching out to clutch Roger by the wing. Roger,
limp and bedraggled, with all the stiffness out of his feathers, said
nothing for a whole minute. Then, beating his wings together, he
began to scream out hoarsely, "The Captain's caught! The Collector's
collected. They have Master Salt forty fathom below. They've got him
shut up, I mean down at the bottom of the sea like a gold fish in a
bowl, only he's in a big bowl of air. They're poking little fish and
crabs through a trap door in the air shaft and I cannot break or even
make a dent in the transparent slide they've shot across the air hole
to shut him off from us. And oh, my bill and feathers! Every time they
open the trap door to shove things in to him, water rushes into the
vacuum. He's standing in water to his knees now and unless we can break
a hole in that lid the Captain's done for--done for, do you hear?"

"They?" asked Tandy while Nikobo's eyes almost popped out of her head,
"Who do you mean?"

"Oh, oh, don't ASK me!" choked the poor Read Bird. "They're not fish
and they're not men. They're about the size of Tandy, here, sort of
stiff and jellied and perfectly transparent. On a shell hanging outside
of one of their caves it said 'Seeweegia.'"

"Seeweegia!" moaned Ato, clutching his head in both hands. "Let me see!
Let me see! What's to be done, boys? Now quick! What's to be done?"

"Have Roger fetch the saw we used on the whale's horn," gurgled Nikobo.

"And I'll climb down and saw a hole in that slide," cried Tandy eagerly.

"No, _I'll_ climb down," said Ato firmly. "I've known Sammy the longest
and if he's going to come to a watery end I might as well end with
him."

Leaving the two arguing, Roger flashed back to the ship, returning
in almost no time with the scintillating and powerful saw. Tandy had
meanwhile convinced Ato that he could climb down the rope faster, being
so much lighter, and now, with tears in their eyes, Nikobo and the
ship's cook saw Tandy and Roger disappear into the air shaft.

Tandy let himself down carefully hand over hand, Roger keeping abreast
of him with the saw. To slide rapidly to the bottom would have been
quicker, but the resulting blisters would make it difficult to use the
saw. Forty fathoms, nearly two hundred and forty feet, is a long way
to go hand over hand on a rope, and before he reached the glass-like
slide, Tandy's palms stung and his shoulders ached and burned from the
strain. But at last he was down, and dropping to his hands and knees
with Roger mourning and muttering beside him, Tandy peered fearfully
through the glassy substance.

For a moment everything was a green and misty blur, but gradually the
figure of Samuel Salt standing sturdily in the middle of the air bowl
became visible. Although waist high in sea water, and surrounded by
loathsome sea creatures and crabs the Seeweegians had tossed in for him
to eat, Samuel was making slow and interested entries in his journal.
Pressed against the sides of his strange aquarium, Tandy could see the
round, square and triangular faces of the jellyfish men and women.
Brilliantly colored vines and seaweed waved and tossed in the current,
the floor of the ocean was covered with bright shells, polished stones
and all manner of sparkling deep sea jewels. Had Tandy not been so
worried about Samuel Salt he would have liked nothing better than
sketching this strange and beautiful under sea Kingdom with the
Seeweegians flopping and swimming busily in and out of their grottos
and caves, or disporting themselves in the sea weed forests. But as
it was, his only thought was of quickly freeing the Captain of the
_Crescent Moon_ from his curious prison.

"Look, they've put up a sign," hissed Roger, handing over the saw.
Looking in the direction indicated by Roger, Tandy saw an immense shell
on which long wisps of sea weed had been arranged to form the words:

    COME SEE THE CURIOUS HIGH AIR MANSTER.
    ADMISSION, 1 PEARL, 5 CORALS AND A CLAM!

The sight of this sign swinging from a small sea tree close to Samuel's
air bowl sent a wave of rage up Tandy's back. Rubbing his palms briskly
together, the little boy seized the saw and struck it with all his
might against the unyielding surface of the slide. The noise attracted
Samuel's attention, and looking up he began waving his arms, yelling
out wild orders and commands. Not being able to hear any of them and
being quite sure Samuel was telling them to leave the air shaft before
the Seeweegians shot another slide above their heads and caught them,
too, Tandy proceeded grimly with his task. Roger helped, scraping away
with both claws and bill. For five desperate minutes they worked
without success, then a tiny crack split the slide from edge to edge.
Wedging the saw into the narrow opening, Tandy began sawing away like
a little wild man, for a fresh batch of snails and crabs tossed in to
Samuel had let in another rush of sea water. Immersed to his chin,
Samuel started to swim round and round, dodging the end of the saw as
it flashed up and down above his head.

"Oh!" gasped Tandy, stopping a moment to blow on his fingers. "I'll
never be able to make this opening large enough. Look, look, Roger,
they're opening that trap door again. Oh, Oh! I can't bear it!"

"Help! Help!" yelled the Read Bird, looking despairingly up the empty
air shaft. "Help, for the love of sea salt and sailor men!" His cry,
increased by the curious nature of the compressed air in the air shaft,
increased a hundredfold and fell with a hideous roar upon the anguished
ears of Ato and Nikobo. Almost instinctively and without thought of
her own safety, or Ato's, or the dire consequences, the hippopotamus
jumped bodily into the sea hole. Roger, still glaring upward, had a
quick flash of an immense falling object. Realizing at once what had
happened, the Read Bird had just time to snatch Tandy and drag him to
the opposite side of the slide before Nikobo landed--broke through
the thick glass, plunged into Samuel's aquarium and shot out through
the side into a group of horrified Seeweegians. Now do not suppose for
an instant that Tandy, Roger or Samuel himself saw all this happen.
Indeed, after Nikobo struck the slide, none of them remembered a thing,
for the ocean, rushing in through the puncture the hippopotamus had
made in the vacuum, rose like a tidal wave, carrying them tumultuously
along.

Nikobo came up at a little distance from the others, with Ato,
completely wrapped and entangled in seaweed, clinging tenaciously to
her harness and looking like some queer marine specimen himself. Too
shocked and stunned to swim, the five shipmates bobbed up and down
like corks on the surface of the sea. Then Roger, spreading his wet
and bedraggled wings and coughing violently from all the salt water he
had swallowed, started dizzily back to the _Crescent Moon_. Nikobo had
several long gashes in her tough hide, but still managed to grin at
Tandy.

"I--I must have lost the saw," panted the little boy, pulling himself
wearily up on her back.

"Never mind the saw. I still have my journal, and look what I caught!"
puffed Samuel Salt, dragging himself up on the other side of the
hippopotamus. "Ship ahoy, Mates, a live and perfect specimen of a
jellyfish boy." Holding up his prize, Samuel smiled blandly, all his
danger and discomfort apparently forgotten.

"Oh, my eyes, ears and whiskers!" quavered Ato, peering out of his
net of seaweed. "Is it for this we've been scraping our noses on the
sea bottom?" Nodding cheerfully, Samuel plunged the squirming and
transparent little water boy under the surface, holding him there, as
Nikobo swam slowly and painfully back to the ship.




CHAPTER 16

The Storm!


Tandy was so exhausted from his dreadful experiences at the bottom of
the sea hole he spent the rest of the morning flat on his stomach on
deck making lively sketches from memory of the City of Seeweegia. Of
the sea hole itself not a sign nor vestige remained. The sea, tumbling
through the breach made by Nikobo, had closed it up forever and ever.
Ato had Roger fetch bandages and witch hazel down to the raft and it
took him two hours to bind up the cuts and hurts of the faithful
hippopotamus. Then climbing wearily up the rope ladder to the deck, he
spent another hour rubbing himself with oil and liniment, muttering
darkly about reckless collectors who got themselves and their shipmates
collected.

"What would WE have done if you'd never got out of that air bowl?"
scolded Ato, waving the bottle of liniment at the Captain, who was
cheerfully changing into dry clothes. "_You_ know _I_ know nothing
about navigation nor one sail from t'other."

"Ah--but what you know about sauces!" retorted Samuel, rolling his
eyes rapturously. "Of course, I'll grant a ship cannot sail on its
stomach, but if the worst had come to the worst, you could have left
a note for the sails on the binnacle. 'If it comes up a blow, tie
yourselves up.' Ha, ha! Tie yourselves UP!" Jamming his feet into his
boots, Samuel blew a kiss to his still muttering shipmate and tramped
down to the hold to settle his jellyfish boy in one of the large
aquariums. The water boy, about half the size of Tandy, was a jolly
enough looking specimen, but kept opening and shutting his mouth like
a fish and staring anxiously from his captor to Mo-fi in the cage
opposite. Whistling happily and unmindful of the cuts and bruises he
had suffered, Samuel filled the bottom of the aquarium with pebbles
and shells, put in several seaweed plants he'd fished up in the nets,
and soon had the little stranger as happy and cozy as a clam. Giving
him and Mo-fi a wafer of fish food, the Royal Explorer of Oz went above
to have a look at the weather, for he did not like the way the ship was
pitching.

In spite of the desperately fatiguing morning they had had, it seemed
the voyagers were in for some further excitement. The sky had grown
dark and threatening. Dark clouds in ever-increasing numbers scudded
along from the east; the sea, rough and angry, was full of racing
little whitecaps. Nikobo's raft plunged and rocketed up and down like
a bucking bronco, flinging the hippopotamus from side to side and
bringing her with squealing protests up against the rail first on one
side and then on the other. Fearing for her safety, Samuel with Tandy's
help rigged a temporary derrick to the mizzenmast, hove his vessel
to, and bidding Nikobo swim round to the side, cleverly hoisted her
to the main deck by a hook caught through her harness. Nikobo took it
all quite calmly, coming down with a thankful little grunt, glad to be
with her shipmates in the gale that was lashing the sea into a rolling,
tossing fury of mounting gray water and foam.

The wind had risen now almost to hurricane proportions, and taking in
all sail and with only a tarpaulin lashed in the main rigging, Samuel
prepared with bared poles to ride out the storm. Ato, always ready and
helpful in a crisis, trudged up and down the heaving decks with pails
of hot soup and coffee, and after a hasty lunch, all hands fell to
closing ports, battening hatches and removing from the decks all loose
gear and equipment. As it was impossible to shove Nikobo through the
door of the main cabin, Samuel lashed her tightly to the mizzenmast and
with an old sail round her shoulders the hippopotamus anxiously watched
the mountainous waves breaking over the bow and running down into
the scuppers. It was all so wild and new, so dangerous and exciting,
Tandy begged Samuel to let him stay on deck. Much against his better
judgment, Samuel finally gave his consent, tying Tandy fast to Nikobo
and the mizzenmast. If anything happened to the ship, reflected Samuel,
fighting his way back to the wheel, the hippopotamus could keep Tandy
afloat and take care of him besides.

Ato and Roger, not being needed on deck and not caring for storms, shut
themselves up in the main cabin for a game of checkers. But checkers
and board soon flew through the air, and the two had all they could do
to hang on to their chairs as the _Crescent Moon_ pitched headlong into
the cavernous hollows and struggled up the mountainous ridges of the
great running seas.




CHAPTER 17

The Old Man of the Jungle!


In the splendid white marble Palace in the splendid White City of
Ozamaland the nine Ozamandarins sat in solemn conference.

"This time we have succeeded," stated Didjabo, chief of the nine Judges
of the realm, "this time we have succeeded and our plans may now be
accomplished. Last time, we merely destroyed the King and Queen,
neglecting to do away with the Royal Off-spring, Tazander Tazah, and
for that reason we failed utterly. So long as this boy survived, the
natives insisted on considering him their rightful King and Ruler. But,
hah! that prophecy we invented about an aunt carrying him off was a
clever and useful idea--eh, my fellow Zamians? Now as the child, with a
little help on our part it must be confessed, has really been carried
off and destroyed, we can blame these same silly females, and they and
all the royal family can be tossed into the sea to pay for this heinous
crime. Ha, ha! Quite an idea, a famous idea!" murmured Didjabo, and the
eight Ozamandarins nodded their narrow heads in complete and satisfied
agreement. "Leaving the throne clear for us--the Nine Faithful Servants
of the People!" Again the Ozamandarins nodded, but Didjabo, slanting
his cruel little eyes up and down the long table, was already making
plans to destroy the lot of them and have the whole great country for
himself.

"But how can we be sure the boy is destroyed and out of the way?"
questioned Lotho, the second Ozamandarin in point of rank and power.

"Because," Didjabo curled up his lips in a hard little smile, "the Old
Man of the Jungle has brought us proof. Boglodore! BOGLODORE! It is our
wish that you appear before us."

At Didjabo's call there was a slight rustle and stir behind the
curtains in the doorway, and an immense wrinkled old native clad only
in a turban and loin cloth stepped noiselessly into the Chamber of
Justice. Without waiting for further orders, Boglodore began in a high,
dismal, droning voice:

"Following the commands of the highest among you, I, Boglodore the
Magician, did carry off on my famous, never known or seen flying
umbrellaphant the heir and small King of this country, coming down
after two days, on Patrippany Island. Not wishing to destroy the boy
with my own hands, I left him to the wild beasts and savage Leopard Men
known to inhabit this island. That, as you know, was five months and
two weeks ago. Having just returned from a second flight to the Island
where I found no trace or sign of the boy, I can safely assure you
that he is no more, that he has undoubtedly been killed by the savages
or the wild beasts of the jungle." There was not a trace of pity or
remorse on the cruel flat faces of his listeners as Boglodore finished
this shameful recital.

"In that case there is nothing left to do but punish the royal aunts
and family, issue a proclamation of our accession to power, and divide
up the Kingdom," mused Lotho, drumming thoughtfully on the table with
his long skinny fingers.

"But do not forget my reward," wheezed Boglodore firmly. "For this
cruel and infamous deed I was promised one tenth of Ozamaland and I
am here to claim as my share the entire jungle reach of this country.
Extending his arms, the old man of the jungle advanced threateningly
toward the long table.

"Ha, ha! Just listen to him now," sneered Didjabo, gathering up his
papers and looking insolently across at the angry native. "Have a care
what you say, fellow. Too much of this and you'll go over the cliff
with the royal relatives. Now, then, clear out! Your work is done! If
you ever set foot in this city again, you shall be trampled beneath the
feet of the royal elephants!"

"Ah--hhh!" Boglodore recoiled as if he had been confronted by a
poisonous reptile. "So that's to be the way of it? Aha! Very good! I
will go. But do not think this is the end! It is but the beginning!"
Snapping his fingers under the long noses of the Ozamandarins, the old
man, not bothering with the door, leapt out the window and vanished
into the garden.

"Do you think that was quite wise?" questioned Teebo, third in rank of
the Ozamandarins. "This fellow and his flying elephant are dangerous
and may do us a world of harm."

"Do not forget, anything he says will involve himself, and he'll have a
hard time proving to the people that it was on my orders the young King
was carried off."

"Oh, hush!" warned Lotho, glancing nervously over his shoulder. "Not
another word!" Shrugging his shoulders and rising to indicate that the
meeting was over, Didjabo started pompously for the door. "I will go
now to prepare a Royal Proclamation explaining that as the young King
has not after exhaustive search been found or located, the authority
and governing power of the state shall pass to us, the Nine Faithful
Ozamandarins of the Realm! We can then meet again and here in this star
and barred Chamber of Justice divide the Kingdom among us."

"Very well, but see that you remember it is to be divided!" Staring
fixedly at Didjabo, Lotho strode away, colliding violently at the door
with a small breathless page who was entering on a veritable gallop.

"Your Honors! Your Ozamandarin Majesties!" shrilled the boy, wildly
waving his trumpet instead of blowing upon it. "A ship--there is a ship
with four masts beneath the chalk cliffs, a strange ship with full
sail is riding into our harbor."

"There, there, don't shout!" snapped Didjabo, seizing the boy roughly
by the shoulders. "Go back at once and discover what flag this ship
flies from her masthead. Quickly now. RUN!"

"What could it mean? Where could it be from? Such a thing has never
happened before!" muttered the others, hastening over to the long
windows.

"Confoundation!" raged Didjabo as the page with frightened stutters
turned and ran out of the Hall of Justice. "This ruins everything.
Who are these meddling foreigners? And why do they have to arrive
now of all times? NOW! Lotho! Teebo! Call out the camel corps and
the white elephant guard. Have them drawn up in war formation on the
chalk cliffs. You others!" impatiently Didjabo waved his arms at the
six remaining Ozamandarins, "See to the defense of the palace! If
these meddlers set foot upon our territory they are to be trampled
upon, trampled upon--do you understand?" Nodding with fierce and cruel
determination, the eight tall Keepers of the White City set about
carrying out Didjabo's orders. Didjabo, hurrying up to the highest
tower in the castle, looked through his telescope to see what manner
of ship had come sailing out of the west to spoil or postpone his
well-laid plans.




CHAPTER 18

A New Country


Driven by the pitiless wind, pounded by the merciless sea, the
_Crescent Moon_ rode before the gale, coming, toward morning, into
quiet waters at last. The sky, now pale grey instead of black, showed
a small single star in the east, and with a huge sigh of weariness and
relief Samuel let go the anchor and bade his crew turn in all standing.
This they were only too glad to do, sleeping heavily and thankfully in
their clothes, Nikobo still wrapped in her sail snoring like a whole
band of music beneath the mizzenmast.

Tandy, to whom the storm had been a thrilling adventure, was the first
to waken. Still stiff and bruised from the pounding he had taken as
the _Crescent Moon_ tossed and pitched in the terrible seas, he sprang
eagerly out of his bunk, curious to know where the storm had carried
them.

The morning mists, lifting like a shimmering veil or the curtain of
a stage on some new and strange scene, showed a long white line of
chalk cliffs to the east, and beyond the cliffs the dim outline of a
great and splendid city. With joy and lively expectations Tandy had
run out on deck, but now, after a long look over the port rail, he
crept silently and soberly back to his cabin, closing the door softly
behind him. Later, as the sun rose higher, and his shipmates awoke,
the excited screams of Nikobo and Roger and the eager voices of Samuel
and Ato told him that they too had seen the bright land beyond the
cliffs. Already Samuel was clewing up his sail and above the rattle in
the rigging Tandy could hear the rasp of the anchor cable as it came
winding over the side. But he only bent lower over the fat book in his
lap, and when the Read Bird, loudly calling his name, came hurtling
through the port-hole, he did not even look up.

"Land! Land and MORELAND!" croaked Roger, dancing up and down on the
foot of the bunk. "None of your pesky islands this time, but a whole
long new continent. What in salt's the matter, youngster, this is no
time to be a-reading! Come on, come on, the Captain's looking for you!"
As Roger peered sharply down at the book in Tandy's lap two tears
splashed on the open page. Quickly brushing two more off his nose, the
ship's cabin boy unwillingly met the puzzled gaze of the Read Bird.

"Roger," demanded Tandy in a smothered and unsteady voice, "which is
most important, being a King or being a person?" Roger, his head on one
side, considered this for a moment and then spoke quickly.

"Well, you can't be a good King without being a good person, so I
should say, being a good person is most important."

"But it says here," with a furious sniff Tandy put his finger on the
middle paragraph of the page, "'In no circumstances and for no reason
may a King forsake his country nor desert his countrymen.'"

"What's that? What's this? Humph! _Maxims for Monarchs._ Well, what in
topsails do we care for that musty volume?" Giving the book a vicious
shove, Roger, forgetting how much he had formerly praised Ato's fat
volume, fluttered down on Tandy's shoulder. "So THAT'S it!" he burst
out explosively. "This pernicious country yonder is Ozamaland. Well, we
can't spare you and that's final. They didn't know how to treat a good
King when they had one, now let 'em practice on somebody else. Say the
word, m'lad, and we'll put about and sail away as fast as a good ship
can take us! CAPTAIN! Master Salt! Deck ahoy! All hands 'HOY!" Without
waiting for Tandy's answer, Roger skimmed through the port and winged
over to the Captain.

"Wait! Wait!" sputtered Tandy, hurrying aft where the officers and
crew of the _Crescent Moon_ were now engaged in earnest conversation.
"Don't you remember you wanted some of those creeping birds and flying
reptiles, Captain? Well, this is the place!" puffed the little boy,
waving his arm toward the cliffs. "This is Ozamaland and I've got to go
ashore. It's really all right," he continued earnestly as Samuel began
unhappily rubbing his chin, "it's been a grand voyage and I've learned
a lot, but a King has to stick to his post, hasn't he?"

"Not all the time," snapped Ato, giving his belt an indignant jerk.
"You stuck to your post and they stuck you in a tower and then in a pig
pen in the jungle. So what do you owe them? Nothing, say I, absolutely
nothing!"

But Samuel Salt, regretful as he was to lose this handy young artist
and cabin boy, felt that Tandy must decide the matter for himself. "If
you're as good a King as you are a seaman, I'm not the one to hold you
back," he sighed sorrowfully. "But just let these lubbers start any
more nonsense and I'll give them a taste of the rope. HAH! And we'll
not be leaving you till everything's shipshape, and you can lay to
that!"

"I'm not leaving you at all," snorted Nikobo, lumbering hugely over to
Tandy and almost flattening him against the port rail. "I'll miss this
ship worse'n the river, and Ato's cooking and the Captain's stories and
Roger's jokes, but wherever Tandy goes I go, and that's flat!"

"Just plain noddling nonsense, putting him ashore," fumed Ato angrily.
"He's not old enough to manage these wild tribesmen and scheming
aristocrats. Besides, we need him on this expedition, and you know it."
Samuel, sighing deeply, smiled at Tandy and Tandy, sighing just as
deeply, smiled back.

"Never you mind," promised the former Pirate with a wink that somehow
lacked conviction, "there'll be other voyages!" And seizing the wheel,
he began tacking in toward Tandy's homeland. But he had lost all
pleasure and interest in charting for the first time on any map the
long continent of Tarara and adding strange animals and plants to his
ever-growing collection. Losing Tandy spoiled the whole expedition for
him, and by taking longer and wider tacks he delayed their landing to
the latest possible moment.

But at last there they were in the very shadow of the chalk cliffs
and with no further excuse for not going ashore. Nikobo had agreed to
carry them and had abruptly heaved herself overboard, sending up a
fountain of spray as high as the ship itself when she struck the water,
thus astonishing no end the watchers on the bank. Tandy, after running
down to the hold to say goodbye to Mo-fi and have a last look at the
jellyfish boy, regretfully joined the others at the port rail. Having
brought nothing aboard the _Crescent Moon_, he insisted on leaving in
the same way, soberly waving aside all the gifts and presents Ato and
Samuel sought to press upon him. Clad only in the leopard skin he had
worn on Patrippany Island, he swung nimbly down the rope ladder. The
Captain and the cook, in honor of Tandy's homecoming, had donned their
finest shore-going togs, and Samuel, with a scimiter in his teeth,
and Ato, armed as usual with his bread knife and a package he refused
to explain, followed him more slowly down the ladder. Then they all
climbed aboard the hippopotamus.

Roger, flying ahead with some Oz flags just for luck, could not help
comparing the brown, hard-muscled young seaman with the skinny, fretful
boy they had taken on at Patrippany Island. Trying to comfort himself
with Tandy's improved health and spirits, he looked curiously at the
great company assembled on the cliffs. All of the Nobles and their
families in flowing white robes were present and many of the immense
turbanned tribesmen who happened to be in the capital had gathered to
see for themselves the first ship that had ever touched the shore of
Ozamaland. Beyond the Nobles and natives Roger could see row on row of
white guards mounted on enormous white elephants and snow-white camels.

"Trouble, trouble, nothing but trouble!" mourned the Read Bird drearily
to himself. Tandy, familiar with the whole coast, guided Nikobo to
the only possible spot for landing and, grunting and mumbling, the
hippopotamus hauled herself up on the rocks, glancing sharply and
suspiciously at the little boy's subjects. A narrow path wound and
curved up through the cliffs and, puffing and panting, Nikobo finally
made her way to the top, where she stood uncertainly facing the milling
multitude.

"Hail and greetings!" called Samuel Salt, raising his arm to attract
their attention, for the crowd looked both dangerous and unfriendly.
"We are here to return to you safe and sound your lost King, Tazander
Tazah, rescued by us from the wild jungle of Patrippany Island."

"King? King?" shrilled a dozen shrill and unbelieving voices. "Where?
Where?" and everyone craned his neck to get a better view of Nikobo and
her three curious riders. "Is it really our lost and stolen Kinglet?"

"Yes!" cried Tandy, springing erect. "I am Tazander Tazah, King's son
and son of a King's son. You are my lawful subjects and Ozamaland is my
Kingdom!" A little shiver of excitement ran through the crowd at these
words.

"He does in truth resemble our young ruler," murmured one Noble to
another, "though much stronger and more bold." Drawing a long sword, he
waved it imperiously above his head. "Summon the Ozamandarins," he
called loudly. "They will decide whether this be our King or some small
Impostor, and DEATH to all strangers and enemies who come in ships to
lay waste our realm."

"Oh, hold your tongue!" advised Ato, settling himself more comfortably
between Nikobo's shoulders. "Who are you to challenge the Royal
Explorer of Oz, the King of the Octagon Isle--"

"And his Royal Read Bird," piped Roger, flying savagely round and round
the head of the speaker.

"Yes, who are you to challenge the rightful ruler of Ozamaland?" cried
Tandy, folding his arms and gazing calmly out over the curious throng.

"Hi, is this the young slip they kept locked in the tower? Hoo,
Hoo!" yelled an old tribesman, brandishing his long lance. "He's the
salt of the sea and the sand of the desert. Shame on you, Zamen,
not to recognize and welcome your young King. _I'm_ for you, young
one, down to my last breath!" In spite of these brave words, the
nobles, natives and guards made no move or motion to let Nikobo pass
through. Then suddenly there was a break in the crowd and the nine
square-hatted Ozamandarins stepped rigidly forward. And nine taller,
thinner, meaner-visaged rogues, decided Samuel, lovingly fingering
his scimiter, it had never been his misfortune to encounter. Didjabo,
recognizing Tandy at once in spite of his new and seaman-like bearing,
was the first to speak.

"The blessing of the stars, moon and sun upon you!" cried the wily
chief, bowing rapidly ten times in succession, "And upon these
strangers who have brought you safely back to these shores! Welcome,
most welcome, small King and ruler of the Ozamanders!" Speaking calmly
but with black fury in his heart to have his plans so unexpectedly
thwarted, Didjabo advanced rapidly toward Nikobo. "And now that you
are here and really safe, we must see that you are locked securely in
the White Tower of the Wise Man away from all future hurt and harm!"
Reaching the side of the hippopotamus, he put up his hand to help Tandy
dismount.

"But I'm not going back to the Tower!" said Tandy, looking the Chief
Ozamandarin straight in the eye. "Ever! I'm riding on to the castle, so
kindly order some refreshments for my friends and shipmates."

"Hi, Yi, Yi!" approved the old tribesman, pounding the cliff with his
lance. "Here's a King for us. What good did your Tower do before, old
Square-Hat? He was carried off in spite of it, wasn't he? Well, trot
along now and do as he says; he's the King, and I'm here to see he
gets his rights!" Shocked by the determination in Tandy's voice and the
evident delight of the crowd at his defiance, Didjabo put up his hand
for silence.

"It is the law of the land that the nine Ozamandarins shall guard
the life and preserve the health of the country's sovereign," stated
Didjabo in his cold and impressive voice. "Until this boy becomes of
age he must be cared for and protected from his enemies. Forward,
guards! On to the Tower! You OTHERS!" Didjabo nodded disagreeably at
Samuel Salt, Ato, Roger and Nikobo, "You others may return to your
ship, where a suitable reward will be sent out to you. We are deeply
indebted to you for finding our King, but the law of Ozamaland says
that all foreigners landing on our shores shall instantly and without
delay be flung over the cliffs. In your case we graciously permit you
to leave. Come, Tazander!"

While Samuel Salt could not help admiring the way the old Ozamandarin
was trying to keep the upper hand, he had no intention of leaving till
he had assured himself that Tandy was in safe and proper hands. "But
surely you will wish to hear the story of how we found this boy and
explain how he happened to be on that jungle island!" observed Samuel
mildly. "Step back, my good fellow, Nikobo has large feet and she just
might happen to tread on you."

"Yes," wheezed Nikobo sullenly, "I just might happen to do that very
thing." Slipping round to the other side of the hippopotamus, Didjabo,
paying no attention to either remark, tried to pull Tandy to the
ground. But the little boy, remembering Roger's advice about lubbers
gave him a fast and sudden poke in the nose that sent his hat flying
off and the Ozamandarin himself rolling head over heels.

"Hurray, Hurray! Avast and belay! And down with old Square-Hats
forever!" shrilled the Read Bird, while Ato and Samuel exchanged
a proud and pleased glance. While the other Ozamandarins stood
uncertainly, the crowd, long weary of the rigid rule of the nine
judges, began to laugh and cheer.

"The King is King! Long live the King!" shouted the old tribesman
vociferously.

But Didjabo pulling himself furiously to his feet, flung up his arm.
"Guards! Guards!" he screeched venomously, "Do your work! Save this
poor, misguided child from these unspeakable foreigners or we are all
lost. Can you not see they are savages, sorcerers and enemies? Seize
the King and over the cliff with these hippopotamic invaders!"




CHAPTER 19

Boglodore's Revenge


The word "hippopotamic" seemed to rouse the undecided guards to action,
and Samuel, as the crowd moved uneasily aside to let the elephant and
camel mounted guardsmen through, heartily wished himself back on the
ship. Nikobo, squealing with rage and defiance, began moving cautiously
back toward the path down the cliffs, but Ato, who had been merely
biding his time, tore open his package and began tossing right and left
the tumbleweeds and creeping vines which fortunately it had contained.

The first creeper caught Didjabo, bound him up and laid him by the
heels before he could issue another order. Taking careful aim,
Ato threw a creeping vine at each of the other Ozamandarins. The
tumbleweeds, whirling beneath the feet of the elephants and camels,
caused them to fall to their knees, tossing their riders over their
heads, and between the yells of the guards, the squeals of the camels,
and trumpeting of the elephants, confusion was terrific. The natives
and Nobles and all who could still move or run set off at top speed for
the city without once looking behind them. Muttering angrily under his
breath, Ato continued to hurl vines and tumbleweeds till none was left.
Unable to advance an inch, the white guard and their mounts rolled and
groveled together in the deep sand.

"Now we can go on to the palace!" cried Tandy, a bit breathless by the
suddenness of it all. "Oh, Ato, how did you ever happen to bring those
plants along?"

"I suspected some of these subjects of yours were villains," answered
Ato grimly, "and the only way to meet villains is with villainy.
Forward march, my Lass! On to the King's castle!"

Picking her way around the fallen men and beasts, Nikobo, snorting at
each step to show her superiority and contempt, set out for the Royal
Palace. Of all the people who had run out on the cliffs, besides the
securely bound Ozamandarins and the guard, only the old tribesman who
had first cheered Tandy remained.

"Oh, please do come with us," invited Tandy earnestly as the old man
stepped smilingly out of Nikobo's way. "You could tell me all about the
tent dwellers and help me so much if you would."

"I am Chunum, the Sheik, head of a thousand tribes and speaking for
them, I can say they all will proudly and gladly serve your brave
young Majesty. Too long have the city dwellers ruled this great
liberty-loving land."

"Then over the side and under the hatches with 'em," cried Roger,
beside himself with joy and exuberance at the neat way Ato had handled
Tandy's subjects. "This boy's an able-bodied seaman and explorer and
will stand no nonsense!"

"My sea is the desert," said Chunum, striding jauntily along beside
Nikobo, "and my ship is a camel, but I'll wager we'll understand each
other well enough for all that."

To Tandy, conversing eagerly with Chunum, the splendor of the White
City of Om was an old story, but to the others it seemed, with its
flashing marble walks, great waving palms and towering dwellings and
castle, one of the loveliest capitals they had yet visited.

Word of the happenings on the cliff had traveled fast. Longing to
welcome the young King, but fearing the strange magicians who had come
with him, the Nobles had barred themselves in their fine houses and the
natives had fled to the hills beyond the city gates. The many-domed
marble palace was absolutely deserted when Nikobo pushed her way
through the wide doors. Not a footman, page or courtier was in sight.
Seeing no attention or service was to be had for some time, Ato hurried
away to the kitchens and was soon happily at work preparing a splendid
feast to celebrate Tandy's homecoming.

Tandy himself felt quiet and sad, examining with scant interest and
enthusiasm the splendid rooms which he had never yet been allowed to
live in. To tell the truth, he would have traded the whole castle for
his small cabin aboard Samuel's ship. Samuel himself, never really
happy or comfortable ashore, wandered about aimlessly, opening books on
the long tables, peering out windows, and finally settling with a sigh
of resignation in a huge chair beside the throne.

Nikobo had found a long pool and fountain in the same room and, lying
at full length in this luxuriant marble bath, tranquilly waited for
events to shape themselves.

"Why not sit on your throne?" asked Roger as Tandy seated himself on a
small stool beside Samuel Salt.

"Oh, it's much too big for me," sighed Tandy, thinking how very big and
lonely the palace would seem when all his shipmates had gone.

"Aho, and methinks you are right! Ahoy, the beginning of a beautiful
idea doth at this moment start to seep through the head feathers, of
which, _more_ anon!" Chunum, who had never before heard a bird talk,
stared at Roger in amazed interest and surprise, but giving him no more
satisfaction than a mischievous wink, the Read Bird flew off to help
Ato with the dinner. And now Samuel proceeded to tell the old tribesman
how he had found Tandy in the jungle imprisoned in the wooden cage. As
he finished, Chunum shook his head in stern displeasure.

"It has long been my conviction and belief," he stated solemnly, "that
the Ozamandarins are at the bottom of this. Every year they usurp more
and more power, and keeping the young King shut up in the Tower was
but an excuse to give them their own will and way. Nor can I believe
that the royal parents of this boy accidentally fell into the sea as
they were reported to have done, or that the young aunts mentioned in
the prophecy had anything at all to do with Tandy's abduction. Tell me,
how long will the vines hold those villains prisoner, for only that
long is Tazander safe. We must think and act quickly," said Chunum,
tapping his staff thoughtfully on the floor.

"The vines will not unwind for two days and before THEN--HAH!" Samuel
expelled his breath in a mighty blast and sprang purposefully to his
feet. "Before then we shall put those fellows in a very safe place
for Tandy and for them too, shiver my timbers!" Taking Chunum by the
shoulder, Samuel started toward the door, and seeing the two intended
to leave the castle, Nikobo climbed out of the fountain and offered
to carry them. Tandy nodded absently as the two left the castle, his
thoughts still far away on the _Crescent Moon_, and considering the
work they had to do, Samuel and Chunum were well pleased to leave him
behind.

With surprising speed the hippopotamus made the return trip to the
cliffs. The effects of the tumbleweed had evidently worn off and the
guards and their mounts had fled with the rest of the inhabitants
of White City to the hills. But the nine Ozamandarins still lay in
their curious cradles in the deep coarse sand. As Samuel and Chunum,
in absolute agreement as to what should be done, rolled off Nikobo's
back, a furious bellow and screech brought them up short. Nikobo,
startled out of her usual calm, fell back on her haunches and after one
horrified look upward buried her head in the sand.

"It can't be!" cried Samuel, clutching Chunum's sleeve. "It can't be,
but it is!"

"An elephant, a flying elephant!" panted Chunum, dragging Samuel from
under the immense shadow. "Flatten yourself in the sand, seaman,
and we may yet be spared." As Samuel, more amazed than scared at so
strange and curious a specimen, and even vaguely hopeful of capturing
the unwieldy creature, made no move, Chunum dragged him down by main
force. The elephant meanwhile lighted like some gigantic butterfly on
the edge of the cliff. Fairly bleating with fright and terror, the
nine Ozamandarins watched him swooping toward them with a sinister and
soundless speed. Just behind his ear perched Boglodore, the Old Man of
the Jungle, looking cruel and ugly as the genie of all evil.

"Revenge! Revenge!" shrilled the turbaned native, clenching his fists.
"Now shall Boglodore have his reward!" Addressing himself to Chunum and
Samuel Salt, the Old Man of the Jungle began screaming out the story
of his wrongs. "For these scheming rascals I carried away on Umbo,
my great and useful umbrellaphant, the young King of this country.
For this I was to receive one-tenth of the Kingdom, the Ozamandarins
themselves to divide the rest of the country among them. But Hah!
What happened?" Dancing up and down on the elephant's head, Boglodore
again clenched his fists, his face distorted with rage and fury. "What
happened? Why, these miserable cheats refused to pay me, intending to
keep the whole country for themselves. But hearken well, you and YOU!"
Jerking his thumb contemptuously toward his rigid and helpless enemies,
the Old Man continued his story.

"All along I have suspected these thieving Zamans; all along I intended
to fool them and return the little King to his castle, keeping only
the jungle for my own. That is why I built the boy his cage in the
jungle and set Nikobo, the great hippopotamus, to watch over him,
giving her the power of speech and the desire to seek out and protect
this unfortunate child of an unfortunate country. I am a magician and
could well bring about these things. You, whoever you are, who found
and brought him back to Ozamaland did no more than I myself intended to
do and intend to do now. After restoring Tandy to his throne, I meant
to deal with his enemies, and now as they are so neatly bound up and
ready, I shall reward them well for their pains and treachery."

"Stop! Stop! Avast there and belay!" shouted Samuel Salt as the
umbrellaphant, obeying an order from the terrible Old Man, picked up
Didjabo in his trunk and flew swiftly toward the cliff's edge. But
Chunum, again dragging Samuel down, whispered fiercely in his ear.

"It is justice, seaman, and only what we ourselves planned to do. The
vines will keep these rogues afloat for two days, then haply they will
sink--not to die, as death comes not to the people of my country, but
to lie for long forgotten ages at the bottom of the sea, harmless and
sodden, and unable to do any more harm to the country they have so
dishonorably served and betrayed!"

Shuddering and in a tense silence, Samuel and the Sheik watched the
umbrellaphant toss the wretched Ozamandarins one after the other into
the sea. The immense zooming monster fascinated the Captain of the
_Crescent Moon_. Not wings, but a balloon-like structure of its own
tough skin billowing over its back like a howdah, enabled Umbo to
navigate in the air. Samuel was anxious for further talk with the Old
Man of the Jungle, but as the last Ozamandarin fell over the cliff the
umbrellaphant, with a trumpet of defiance, headed rapidly for the open
sea.

"Look! Look! It's getting away!" cried Samuel, rushing to the cliff's
edge and almost tumbling over. "Do you realize that there goes the only
umbrellaphant in captivity?"

"Well, well, and what if it is?" muttered Chunum, again pulling Samuel
back to safety. "I expect Boglodore does not find this country healthy
after the pretty story he has just told us, and come, COME, Master
Seaman, what would you do with a flying elephant aboard your ship?"

"I'd tie it to the mast and carry it back to Oz," explained Samuel,
staring gloomily after the disappearing prize. "Why, it would be the
most rare and amazing specimen ever brought back from anywhere, and
now--now--I've lost it--" Samuel's arms dropped heavily to his sides
and turning away from the cliff, he began walking slowly back toward
Nikobo, who had at last ventured to lift her head from the sand.
Surprised enough was the hippopotamus to learn that she had been given
her power of speech by the ugly little magician on the umbrellaphant,
and frightened lest she forget Tandy's language, she began talking
rapidly to herself.

"But you forget what all this means!" panted Chunum, catching up with
the Explorer and shaking him energetically by the shoulder. "Why, this
clears up the whole mystery. Not an AUNT but an ELEPHant carried
Tazander to Patrippany Island. We must return quickly to the castle
and release his innocent relatives. I myself will call back Tandy's
frightened subjects and tell them of the great good fortune that has
befallen, that we are rid of nine rogues and have a brave young King
to rule Ozamaland. Come, come, do not stand here dreaming about lost
elephants; there is much to be accomplished and done."

"Goosewing my topsails, you're right!" breathed Samuel Salt, coming
completely out of his reverie. "Round up the citizens, comrade, and
I'll carry the good news to the castle."




CHAPTER 20

King Tandy


When Samuel reached the castle, he found Ato and Roger had set a small
cozy table in the Throne Room, and Tandy was anxiously looking out of
one of the gold-framed windows for his return. The whiffs from the
covered dishes were so appetizing the Royal Explorer of Oz was almost
inclined to let his news wait till afterward. But thinking better
of it, he blurted out the whole story of what had happened to the
Ozamandarins.

"Then they're all gone and done for," sniffed Ato, seating himself at
the head of the table. "Well, a couple of hundred years at the bottom
of the sea should soak all the sin and wickedness out of 'em! And you
say it was an umbrellaphant that carried Tandy off? My! and MY! Dear,
dear and DEAR! Just pour me a cup of coffee, Roger. I'm feeling weaker
than soup!"

"Well, how do you suppose _I_ feel," grumbled Samuel Salt, throwing his
hat up on a bronze figure, "to lose an elegant specimen like that? Why,
I'll wager we'll never see another creature like it!"

"There! There! Always talking about the elephant that got away instead
of appreciating your good fortune!" scolded Ato, throwing a corn muffin
down to Nikobo and lifting the gold cover off the roast fowl.

"Yes, and you'd better listen to OUR news, Master Salt!" Roger said,
pouring a cup of coffee for all hands.

"News? NEWS? Has anything happened here?" Samuel looked more anxious
than interested.

"Oh, YES!" cried Tandy, running round to his side of the table and
pressing eagerly against Samuel's knee. "Roger has a wonderful plan and
I as King of Ozamaland have agreed to it, and oh, Samuel, SAMUEL!"
Forgetting he usually called the tremendous seaman "Captain," Tandy
flung both arms round his neck and almost squeezed the breath out of
him. "I'm going straight back on the _Crescent Moon_, and I'm not
coming ashore for years and years. I'm going with you to Ev, Oz, Elbow
Island and everywhere!"

"What?" spluttered Samuel Salt, disentangling himself with great
difficulty and holding Tandy off at arm's length. "Are you joking? Are
you crazy? Have you abdicated or what? Why, this is too good to be
true!"

"But it _is_ true!" insisted Roger, strutting up and down the table and
illy concealing his pride and satisfaction.

"Oh, tell him, tell him," begged Tandy, too happy to speak for himself.

"Well," said Roger, spreading his wings self-consciously, for the
plan was his and he felt prouder of it every minute, "we are placing
Ozamaland under the general rule and protection of Oz and leaving as
Ruler in Tandy's place that long-legged son of the desert, Chunum. Now
there's a fellow who can handle these scary Nobles and natives and wild
elephant and camel riders. A King must complete his education before he
starts ruling, you know." Roger paused to scratch his head and wink
gaily at Samuel Salt. "And if this King chooses to finish his education
on our ship, that is his own affair."

"Oh, quite! Quite!" Samuel began to rock backward and forward and
roar with merriment. "Roger, you rascal, you've done as good a job of
reasoning as a whole flock of Wise Men! Fall to, Mates, now we can
enjoy our victuals and I give you a toast to King Tandy, Cabin Boy,
Explorer and Artist Extraordinary to this Expedition!"

"Tandy! Tandy!" echoed Ato and Roger, lifting their coffee cups.

"Tandy! Tandy!" mumbled Nikobo, who was lunching largely and
luxuriantly on the flowers in a low window box. "When do we sail?"




CHAPTER 21

A Voyage Resumed


Anxious as Tandy was to return to the _Crescent Moon_ and continue the
voyage, it was a whole week before they finally shoved off. Chunum,
true to his word, had rounded up the frightened citizens of the
capital and explained to them the wicked plots of the Ozamandarins and
their punishment by Boglodore, the Old Man of the Jungle. Then Tandy,
addressing them from the castle balcony, called upon them to consider
Chunum as their King until he himself should have completed his
education in foreign parts and aboard the _Crescent Moon_, during which
time he promised to keep them always in mind and have their welfare
always at heart. Next, Tandy explained how Ozamaland was now a province
and under the general rule and protection of Ozma of Oz, how settlers
from that famous fairyland would soon arrive to help them build new
cities and towns, tame the wild jungles of the interior and repel the
dangerous invasions of the Greys.

Here Chunum rose to declare he himself would be responsible for peace
along the border between Amaland and Ozamaland, that the Greys had long
desired to be friends with the Whites, but trouble had been stirred up
by the Ozamandarins so they might have the credit of protecting the
country. Then Tandy spoke again of all the advantages that would be
enjoyed from their association with the Kingdom of Oz. It was a long
and splendid speech, Roger and Tandy having spent the whole morning
in its preparation, and delighted and surprised by the energy and
ambition of their young Ruler, Tandy's subjects cheered him long and
vociferously, greeting each new plan and proposal with loud acclaim and
enthusiasm. The royal aunts and relatives, already released from the
castle dungeons and restored to their royal dwellings, could not speak
highly enough of their young relative's bravery and cleverness and
the bravery and cleverness of all of his new friends. They quite wore
Nikobo out with their questions and petting and the hippopotamus sighed
hugely for the time when they would all be at sea.

"Was I right or was I wrong?" questioned Roger on the third afternoon
as Tandy, resplendent in his court suit of white velvet, reviewed
the vast parade of Loyal Nobles and Natives, and the long lines of
elephants and camels went sweeping by the palace. "They love you just
as much for going away as they would if you stayed. And Chunum is a Man
in a Million."

"Right!" Tandy nodded, waving happily to the crowds that in a high
holiday mood thronged the walks and parks of the beautiful White City.

Chunum had taken Samuel Salt and Ato on an expedition into the jungle
so that the Royal Explorer of Oz could procure a creeping bird and
flying reptile for his collection. Nikobo, old jungaleer that she was,
had gone along to see that no harm came to them. To Tandy a snake with
feathers and a bird with scales and fangs was no novelty, but Samuel,
returning with a pair of each, considered them the most peculiar and
precious of his queer specimens. He carried their cages everywhere he
went and spent long rapt hours watching the snakes fly and the birds
creep about their new cages. Ato had discovered a new and rare fruit
and had brought along several slips to plant in the rail boxes he had
outside the galley. Nikobo had swum to her heart's content in a green
and muddy jungle stream and all three were now quite ready and anxious
to continue the voyage. Aboard the _Crescent Moon_ one of the Guards
had been established to feed the monkey fish and water boy and tend
to the plants in the hold and serve as watchman. And early one bright
morning, just a week after they had landed, the members of the Royal
Exploration Party of Oz set forth from the palace.

Oz flags fluttered and snapped in the fresh morning breeze, mingling
with the white banners of Ozamaland, and the streets and avenues were
lined with Tandy's cheering and now quite cheerful subjects. Riding
Nikobo, accompanied by Chunum on a white elephant and the entire camel
corps and elephant guard, the party made their way down to the water's
edge, feeling exactly, as Ato whispered in a laughing undertone to
Roger, like a whole circus and a zoo. Besides Roger, Tandy, Samuel Salt
and Ato, Nikobo carried two large cages and two small cages. In the
small cages were the flying reptiles and creeping birds. In the large
cages a baby white camel and a baby white elephant.

"You'll sink, my Lass," worried Samuel Salt, as Nikobo, having safely
made her way down the rocky cliff road, waded confidently out into the
sea.

"Not me," murmured the hippopotamus comfortably. "You may get wet, but
I'll get you safely out to the ship. Trust me."

"Goodbye! Goodbye, all!" cried Tandy, standing up on her back to wave
to the crowds collected on the cliffs. Now that he was leaving, he felt
a strange fondness for them. "Goodbye, Chunum! I'll be back, never
fear!"

"Goodbye, Little Fellow! Goodbye, Little King! A fair and far-away
voyage to you," called the tall old desert chief, standing up in his
stirrups to wave his long lance. "To the sun--the moon--the stars I
commend you! Go in happiness and return in health and live long to rule
over Ozamaland."

"You take care of the country and we'll take care of the King," shouted
Samuel. "Goodbye! Goodbye! Be watching, all of you, for the ships from
Oz!"

"Goodbye! Goodbye!" called the Nobles, the natives, the guards; even
the elephants and camels raised their shrill voices in farewell as
Nikobo swam strongly away from the shore and toward the _Crescent Moon_.

The guard left in charge of the ship thankfully turned the vessel
over to its rightful owners and, shaking Tandy feelingly by the hand,
climbed down the ladder and dropped nervously on the back of the
hippopotamus, who was to carry him to shore.

"Here, Brainless, lend a hand with the freight," yelled Roger as Tandy
stood gazing rather thoughtfully toward the cliffs. "The King's ashore!
Long live his cabin boy! I'll carry these pesky reptilia if you take
the camel." Roger winked at Tandy as Samuel Salt, bent double under
the baby elephant's cage, started carefully down to the hold. The baby
camel and its cage were so small Tandy could manage them quite easily,
and with a little laugh he hurried after Samuel and Roger. By the time
they had finished Nikobo had returned from her shore trip and climbed
thankfully back on her raft.

"All hands stand by to heave up the anchor," bellowed Samuel, stepping
cheerfully over to his sail controls. "Anchors aweigh! and away we go,
boys, and the hippopotamus take the hindmost!"

"Ho, ho! Well, she's built for it," roared Ato, bending his weight to
the cable as sail after sail rattled up the masts and bellied out from
the yards. "Where to now, Sam-u-el? Oz?"

"OZ, I should say not! We've a lot of geography to discover before we
go back to Oz. We'll need a roc's egg before we go there, eh, Tandy? A
roc's egg and sixty more islands for Ozma's Christmas stocking."

"Oh! Will we really spend Christmas in Oz?" cried Tandy, skipping up
and down the deck, and forgetting all about his subjects waving from
the cliffs.

"Why not?" demanded Samuel Salt, letting his hands fall happily upon
the wheel. "Oz is as merry a place as any to spend Christmas, eh,
Roger?"

"Merry as eight bells!" cried Roger, flying joyfully into the rigging.
"Ahoy! Ahoy! Nothing but sea t'seaward!"

And when the _Crescent Moon_ flies over Ev and drops down the Winkie
River on Christmas morning with its chart full of islands and curious
continents and its hold full of strange beasts, plants and treasure, I
for one should like to be there, shouldn't you?

                                THE END
﻿




                           HANDY MANDY IN OZ
_Hello there!_


Another spring, another book and another old Wizard in Oz!
Imagine! And with Ruggedo mixed up in the story there's bound to be
fun and excitement.

Now I do hope you like Handy Mandy and Nox. I'm very fond of
the Royal Ox, myself. He rather reminds me of Kabumpo, while Kerry
is as nice a young King as I've met in an Oz age. But tell me what
YOU think. No one, not even Ozma, receives as fine letters as you all
write me, and I can hardly wait to hear all this year's news and those
interesting Ozzy suggestions. My news comes from the palace of the
Red Jinn, today. It seems that he and Kabumpo are really going to pay
that long-promised visit to Randy in Regalia. My--y, I'll have to look
into this. Meanwhile, best and merriest wishes and a high old happy-go-lucky
year to you!

     

                           Handy Mandy in Oz


On many a day had Handy, the Goat Girl of Mern, pursued her goats
up and down the rocky eminences of her native mountain. And
never--NEVER--in her fourteen or so years' experience had she
been blown up by a mountain spring. But there comes, in every one's
experience a day which is unlike every other day, and so it was with
the Goat Girl. As she was pursuing What-a-butter, her favorite goat,
there was a sudden crash, a whish, and up flew the slab of rock on
which she was standing, up and away.

The adventures into which she was carried by this simple though awefull
beginning take a whole book to relate. How she met Nox the Royal Ox of
Keretaria, how together they went in search of little King Kerry, how
at last they rescued him and found themselves feted guests of Ozma of
Oz, all these things you must read for yourselves.

Read what the University of Washington Chapbooks have to say about
the famous Oz series. They _have taught American children to look for
the elements of wonder in the life around them, to realize that even
smoke and machinery may be transformed into fairy lore if only we have
sufficient energy and vision to penetrate to their significance and
transform them to our use.... Some day we may have better fairytales
but that will not be until America is a better country._

(_Edward Wagenknecht._)




                  CONTENTS


        1 Mandy Leaves the Mountain

        2 The End of the Ride

        3 The King of Keretaria

        4 The Message in the Horn

        5 Out of Keretaria!

        6 Turn Town!

        7 A Horn of Plenty

        8 Handy Mandy Learns about Oz!

        9 The Magic Hammer

       10 The King of the Silver Mountain

       11 Down to the Prisoners' Pit!

       12 Prisoners of the Wizard

       13 In the Emerald City of Oz

       14 The Robbery Is Discovered

       15 The Pilgrim Returns to the Mountain

       16 The Wizard's Bargain!

       17 Out of the Prison Pit

       18 Wutz and the Gnome King Leave for the Capital!

       19 At the Bottom of the Mountain!

       20 Just in Time!

       21 The Hammer Elf Explains




CHAPTER 1

Mandy Leaves the Mountain


"What-a-BUTTER! What-a-BUTTER!" High and clear above the peaks of Mt.
Mern floated the voice of the Goat Girl calling the finest, fattest
but most troublesome of her flock. All the other goats were winding
obediently down toward the village that perched precariously on the
edge of the mountain. But of What-a-butter there was not a single sign
nor whisker.

"Serves me right for spoiling the contrary creature," panted Mandy,
pushing back her thick yellow braids with her second best hand. "Always
wants her own way, that goat--so she does. What-a-butter, I say
WHAT-A-BUTTER--come down here this instant." But only the tantalizing
tinkle of the goat's silver bell came to answer her, for What-a-butter
was climbing up, not down, and there was nothing for Mandy to do but go
after her.

Muttering dire threats which she was much too soft hearted ever to
carry out, the rosy cheeked mountain lass scrambled over crags and
stones, pulling herself up steep precipices, the goat always managing
to keep a few jumps ahead, till soon they were almost at the top of the
mountain!

Here, stopping on a jutting rock to catch her breath and remove the
burrs from her stockings, Mandy heard a dreadful roar and felt an
ominous rumbling beneath her feet. What-a-butter on a narrow ledge just
above heard it too, and cocked her head anxiously on one side. Perhaps
she had best jump down to Mandy. After all, the great silly girl did
feed and pet her, and from the sound of things a storm was brewing.
If there was one thing the goat feared more than another, it was a
thunder-storm, so, rolling her eyes as innocently as if she had not
dragged Mandy all over the mountain she stretched her nose down toward
her weary mistress.

"Bah--ah-ah-ahhhhhhhhhh!" bleated What-a-butter affectionately.

"Oh 'Bah' yourself!" fumed Mandy, making an angry snatch for the Nanny
Goat's beard. "Pets and children are all alike--never appreciate a body
till they have a stomach ache, or a thunder-storm is coming. Now then,
m'lass, be quick with you!"

Holding out her strong arms, Mandy made ready to catch the goat as it
jumped off the ledge. But before What-a-butter could stir, there was
a perfectly awful crash and explosion and up shot the slab of rock on
which Mandy was standing, up--UP and out of sight entirely. Where the
mountain girl had been, a crystal column of water spurted viciously
into the air, so high the bulging eyes of the goat could see no end to
it. Rearing up on her hind legs, What-a-butter turned round and round
in a frantic effort to catch a glimpse of her vanishing Mistress.
Then thinking suddenly what would happen should the torrent turn and
fall upon her, the goat sprang off the ledge and ran madly down the
mountain, bleating like a whole herd of Banshees.

And Mandy, as you can well believe, was as frightened as What-a-butter
and with twice as much reason. The first upheaval, as the rock left the
earth, flung her flat on her nose. Grasping the edges of the slab with
all hands, Mandy hung on for dear life and as a stinging shower of icy
water sprayed her from head to foot, wondered what under the earth was
happening to her. Thorns and thistles! Could the thunder-storm really
have come UP instead of down? Certainly it was raining up, and what
ever was carrying her aloft with such terrible force and relentlessness?

How could the Goat Girl know that a turbulent spring pent up for
thousands of years in the center of Mt. Mern had suddenly burst its
way to freedom! And you have no idea of the tremendous power in a
mountain spring once it uncoils and lets itself go. Mandy's rock might
just as well have been shot into the air by a magic cannon. First it
tore upward as if it meant to knock a hole in the sky, then, still
travelling at incalculable speed, began to arch and take a horizontal
course over the mountains, hills and valleys west of Mern. All poor
Mandy knew was that she was hurtling through space at break-neck speed
with nothing to save or stop her. The long yellow braids of the Goat
Girl streamed out like pennants, while her striped skirt and voluminous
petticoats snapped and fluttered like banners in the wind.

"What-a-butter! Oh What-a-butter!" moaned Mandy, gazing wildly
over the edge of the rock. But pshaw, what was the use of calling?
What-a-butter, even if she heard, could not fly after her through
the air, and when she herself came down not even her own goat would
recognize her. At this depressing thought, Mandy dropped her head on
her arms and began to weep bitterly, for she was quite sure she would
never see her friends--her home--or her goats again.

But the rough and frugal life on Mt. Mern had made the Goat Girl both
brave and resourceful, so she soon dried her tears and as the rock
still showed no signs of slowing up nor dashing down, she began to take
heart and even a desperate sort of interest in her experience. Slowly
and cautiously she pulled herself to a sitting position and still
clutching the edges of the rock, dared to look down at the countries
and towns flashing away below.

"After all," sniffed the reckless maiden, "nothing very dreadful has
happened yet. I've always wanted to travel and now I AM travelling. Not
many people have flown through the air on a rock--why it's really a
rocket!" decided Mandy, with a nervous giggle. "And that, I suppose,
makes me the first rocket rider in the country, and the LAST, too," she
finished soberly as she measured with her eye the distance she would
plunge when her rock started earthward. "Now if we'd just come down in
that blue lake, below, I might have a chance. Perhaps I should jump?"

But by the time Mandy made up her mind to jump the lake was far behind
and nothing but a great desert of smoking sand stretched beneath her.




CHAPTER 2

The End of the Ride


The sky, from the rosy pink of late afternoon, had faded to a
depressing grey, and Mandy could not help thinking longingly of the
appetizing little supper she had set out for herself before going up
to call the goats. Who would eat it now or even know she was flying
through the air like a comet? No one, she concluded drearily, for Mandy
was an orphan and lived all by herself in a small cottage on Mt. Mern,
high above the village of Fistikins. In a day or two, some of her
friends in the village might search the cottage and find her gone, but
NOW, now there was nothing to do but sit tight and hope for the best.

Mandy's next glance down was more encouraging. Instead of the dangerous
looking desert, she was sailing over misty blue hills and valleys
dotted with many small towns and villages. High as she was, she could
even hear the church bells tolling the hour, and this made Mandy feel
more lost and lonely than ever. All these people below were safely at
home and about to eat their suppers while she was flying high and far
from everything she knew and loved best.

Hungrily the Goat Girl cast her eyes over the rock she was riding,
thinking to find a small sprig of mountain berries or even a blade of
grass to nibble. At first glance, the rock seemed bare and barren, then
sticking up out of a narrow crevice Mandy spied a tiny blue flower.
"Poor little posy, it's as far from home as I am," murmured the Goat
Girl, and carefully breaking the stem, she lifted the blue flower to
her nose. Its faint fragrance was vaguely comforting and Mandy had just
begun to count the petals, when the rock gave a sickening lurch and
started to pitch down so fast Mandy's braids snapped like jumping ropes
and her skirts bellied out like a parachute in a gale.

"NOW for it," gasped the Goat Girl closing her eyes and clenching her
teeth. "OH! My poor little shins!" Mandy's shins were both stout and
sturdy, but even so we cannot blame Mandy for pitying them. Stouter
shins than hers would have splintered at such a fall. Hardly knowing
what she was doing, Mandy began to pull the petals from the blue
flower, calling in an agonized voice as she pulled each one the names
of her goats and friends. She had just come to Speckle, the smallest
member of her flock, when the end came.

Kimmeny Jimmeny! Was this ALL? Opening one eye, the Goat Girl looked
fearfully about her. She was sitting on top of a haystack, no, not
a haystack, but a heap of soft blue flower petals as soft as down.
Opening the other eye she saw the rock, on which she had travelled so
far, bump over a golden fence and fall with a satisfied splash into a
shimmering lake. But what lay beyond the lake made Mandy forget all her
troubles and fairly moan with surprise and pleasure.

"A CASTLE!" exulted the Goat Girl, putting one hand above her heart.
"Oh! I've always wanted to see a castle and now I AM." And this castle,
let me tell you, was well worth anyone's seeing, a castle of lacy blue
marble carved, and decorated with precious stones, in a way to astonish
the eyes of a simple mountain lass. From the tallest tower, a silken
pennant floated lazily in the evening breeze.

"K-E-R-E-T-A-R-I-A," Mandy spelled out slowly. Sliding off the heap of
flower petals she stood for a long delicious moment lost in admiration.
Then, giving herself a businesslike shake to be sure she was not broken
or bent by her amazing flight and tumble, Mandy turned to examine the
rest of her surroundings.

When she looked at the spot on which she had fallen the stack of blue
petals had disappeared, but there, twinkling up cheerfully, was the
blue flower as much at home as if it had grown there in the first
place. Thoroughly puzzled, Mandy picked the little flower a second time
and slipped it into the pocket of her apron.

Even without the mystery of the blue flower it was astonishing enough
to find herself in the stately park of this gorgeous blue castle. There
was a tree lined avenue and velvety lawns splashed with star shaped
flower beds stretched in every direction. Only the small patch of land
on which she was standing was bare and uncultivated. And evidently
someone was at work here, for a great white ox, with golden horns,
yoked to a gold plow stood with his back to Mandy, dozing cozily in the
pleasant dusk.

At sight of the ox, Mandy gave a little sigh of relief and content.
Long ago an old mountain woman had given her this sensible piece of
advice. "When you do not know what to do next, do the first useful
piece of work that comes to hand." Now here, right at hand, was a
useful piece of work, and while she was trying to figure out the whole
puzzle of the flying rock and strange blue flower, she might just as
well be ploughing. Then when the owner of the castle saw her working so
industriously, he might invite her to supper. So, grasping the tail of
the ancient plow, Mandy clicked her tongue in a cheerful signal for the
ox to start.

The white ox, who had not seen nor heard the Goat Girl till this minute
turned his head in a lordly fashion and gave her a long haughty look.
Not really believing what he saw, he took another look, and then, with
a bellow of fright and outrage went charging across the park pulling
the startled Goat Girl behind him. Mandy might have let go, but she
just did not think of it, and with pounding heart and flying braids
held fast to the pitching plough as it tore through flower beds, ripped
up lawns and cut fearful furrows in the pebbled paths. Clouds of earth,
stones and whole plants uprooted ruthlessly from their beds showered
round her ears, and as they reached the palace, a hard metal object
hit her squarely between the eyes. Putting up a hand, Mandy caught the
flying missile and mechanically slipped it into her pocket, and the
next instant the ox lunging through an open French window dragged her
into the magnificently furnished throne room of the castle. Not only
into the throne room, mind you, but into the lap of royalty itself!




CHAPTER 3

The King of Keretaria


The white ox in his mad dash across the throne room had run violently
into a marble pillar, hurling Mandy straight into the arms of a very
tall, very stern, and very blue looking monarch. Pages and courtiers
tripped and fell left and right in a scramble to get out of the way,
while the ox, snorting and trembling, looked balefully over his
shoulder at the Goat Girl.

"Whu-what is--the--meaning of--this out-rageous in-trusion?" panted
the King. "Unhand me, woman! Remove your finger from my eye and
your arms--your ARMS! Hi! Hi! Hi!" The King's sentence ended in
three frightened squeaks. "Is it a girl or an octopus?" he puffed,
heaving up his chest in an endeavor to dislodge Mandy. "Hi! Hi! Hi!
Are you going to allow this clumping savage to insult my Majesty in
this--er--high-handed manner?"

As the Goat Girl, by this time scarlet from anger and mortification,
jumped off the King's lap, three very high officials of the Court of
Keretaria darted forward.

"The High Qui-questioner! The Imperial Persuader! And the Lord High
Upper Dupper of the Realm!" bawled a page. Having delivered himself
of this impressive announcement the page bolted back of a curtain and
from there peered with astonished eyes at the visitor. Everyone in the
grand blue throne room looked frightened and ready to run at a moment's
notice. Wondering what could be the matter with them all, Mandy with
many misgivings watched the counselors of Keretaria advance in a
threatening row.

"Now then--not a move!" thundered the High Qui-questioner, tapping
her sharply on the shoulder with a golden staff shaped like a huge
interrogation point. "It is my duty to question all strangers who ride,
fall, fly or break into our Kingdom, and you," the Haughty Nobleman
gave Mandy a cold blue stare, "YOU are stranger than any stranger who
has ever come to Keretaria."

"It is my duty to persuade you to do as his Majesty commands," stated
the Imperial Persuader, raising his gold spiked club.

"And it is MY duty to put you in your place," sniffed the Lord High
Upper Dupper rattling a bunch of keys that hung from his belt.

"Well if you ask me," puffed the Ox, rolling his eyes wildly round at
the Goat Girl, "her place is in a museum and the sooner you lock her
upper dupper, the better." Now Mandy was so astonished to hear the Ox
actually speaking, she gave a loud cry and flung up her hands, every
single seven of them.

"Help! Help!" yelped the Courtiers, scurrying like mice into corners
and corridors. Only the white Ox, the King and his Counselors kept
their places.

"How DARE you come into a King's presence armed in this barbarous
fashion?" gasped the High Qui-questioner, taking a step toward the Goat
Girl, but too frightened to touch her.

"PIGS!" cried Mandy, suddenly losing her temper. "Can I help my seven
arms? All of us on Mt. Mern have seven arms and hands and you with
your skinny two seem far funnier than I. I am Mandy, the Goat Girl, as
anyone in his senses can see."

"The girl is right," observed the Ox, gazing more attentively at Mandy
and now speaking quite calmly, "she can no more help those seven arms
than you can help those seven warts on your nose, Questo. I tell you
this maiden is a real curiosity and if you three Hi-boys will cease
rattling your teeth and your clubs, perhaps she will explain why she
has come to Keretaria. I myself shall call her Handy Mandy."

"Why, the beast has more sense than its masters," thought the Goat Girl
in surprise.

"Well," rumbled the King ungraciously, "if you have anything to say
before we lock you up, SAY IT, but do not wave your arms about, PLEASE."

Swallowing nervously, clasping four of her hands behind her back and
stuffing the other three into convenient pockets in her apron, Mandy
began to speak. "I was driving my goats home from the mountain, Your
Majesty, when the rock on which I was standing exploded suddenly into
the air, flew like a bird over hill, valley, and desert and dropped me
into your garden--"

"And not a bruise nor a bump to show for it," grunted the Imperial
Persuader elevating his nose to show he was not taken in by such a
tale. In spite of his suspicious glance, Mandy decided to say nothing
of the blue flower that had so miraculously softened her fall.

"And since when have rocks flown through the air?" inquired the Lord
High Upper Dupper sarcastically.

"Ahem--in the garden," continued Mandy undaunted by the two
interruptions, "I saw this great white ox and thinking to do a bit of
honest work for my supper, grasped the plough, but--"

"That was a little oxident," murmured the great beast in a jovial
voice, "for, catching sight of a seven-armed maiden all at once and
without warning, I took to my heels and landed her in her present
unpleasant predicament. Is that not so, m'lass?"

Looking at the Ox with round eyes, Mandy nodded.

"But she still has not explained all these arms," complained the
Imperial Persuader. "Whoever heard of a seven-handed maiden?"

"I have!" asserted Mandy stoutly. "And what, pray, is there to explain?
This iron hand--" the Goat Girl raised it slowly and thoughtfully as
she spoke, "I use for ironing, lifting hot pots from the stove and all
horrid sort of hard work; this leather hand I keep for beating rugs,
dusting, sweeping, and so on; this wooden hand I use for churning and
digging in the garden; these two red rubber hands for dishwashing and
scrubbing, and my two fine white hands I keep for holding and braiding
my hair." With all seven hands extended before her, Mandy smiled
engagingly up at the King.

"Undoubtedly a witch," whispered the Imperial Persuader darkly, as
the King in spite of himself gazed curiously down at his seven-armed
visitor.

"A dangerous character, Your Majesty," hissed the High Qui-questioner,
shaking his head disapprovingly.

"To the dungeons with her!" rasped the Lord High Upper Dupper, rattling
his keys like castanets.

"WHAT?" bawled the white Ox, stamping all of his gold shod feet in
rapid succession. "You mean to consign this marvel of skill and
efficiency to a dungeon? What a set of dunces you are! Come, Handy, I
myself, will take you for a slave. Out of my way, DOLTS!" Swaggering a
bit, and with the golden plough still clanking and bumping behind him,
the Ox ambled at a dignified pace toward the door. Mandy, though she
did not relish the idea of becoming his slave, was greatly relieved at
the interest the Ox was taking in her case, but before following him,
she looked inquiringly up at the King.

"Yes, GO!" commanded His Majesty harshly, "I hereby give you into the
care and service of Nox, the Royal Ox of Keretaria. Harm one hair of
his head, and you will pay for it with your life and perish, I promise
you, most ignominiously."

"Mercy--ercy," muttered Mandy tiptoeing nervously after her new master,
"doesn't the fellow know any short words? How queer everything is on
this side of the mountain, people with only two arms, animals talking
and giving orders to Kings. Suppose the goats at home started bossing
the villagers?" And what would the villagers think of her strange
flight and reception in Keretaria? Well, from what she herself had seen
of Royalty, decided the Goat Girl, she much preferred her goats or even
the company of this haughty white Ox. Stepping briskly beside him,
Mandy resolved to humor the creature till she saw a bit more of the
country or found some safe way back to her mountain.

Nox swinging along at his own indolent gait paid no further attention
to the Goat Girl, but when they reached his royal quarters, which
to Mandy looked more like a castle than a stable, he began bawling
so fiercely for the stable boys she decided uncomfortably that being
his slave might prove both unpleasant and dangerous. However, when
six little boys dressed in blue overalls and aprons ran out, the
Royal Ox addressed them quite kindly. The first, without waiting for
instructions unhitched the plough and lifted the yoke from the royal
shoulders.

"Prepare Kerry's quarters for my new slave," directed Nox, turning to
the second and third. "You others, bring dinner for two, and mind you
fetch Handy Mandy everything they have at the King's table." With a
playful lunge Nox started them smartly on their way, then moved grandly
into the huge stone stable and along to his own luxurious gold-paved
stall.

"My--y!" exclaimed the Goat Girl, sinking breathlessly to a three
legged stool, "how grand and elegant you are here! My--y, I wish
What-a-butter could see this!"

"One of your goats?" murmured Nox, burying his nose in the huge marble
bowl he used for a drinking trough.

Mandy nodded. "I wish she were here now!" she added with a rapturous
little sigh.

"Well, I don't." Deliberately the Royal Ox licked the water from his
lips. "Do you suppose I'd allow a miserable goat in my sapphire trimmed
stall?"

"Miserable!" squealed Mandy, springing off the stool. "What-a-butter's
the smartest goat on the mountain; she wouldn't give two bleats and a
BAH for an old Hoopadoop like YOU!"

"Hoopadoop!" repeated the Ox in a dazed whisper. "Do you mean to stand
there and call the Royal Ox of Keretaria a Hoopadoop?"

"Yes," said Mandy firmly but backing off a bit as she spoke. "What
makes you think you're so much better than a goat even if you do talk,
put on airs and have golden horns?"

"Well," and to Mandy's surprise and relief, Nox cleared his throat and
grinned quite amiably, "after all I AM the Royal Ox, you know, more
precious to the King than all his court and subjects. Everyone jumps at
my least command, so why shouldn't I put on a few airs? Besides do you
think it's polite to call me an old Hoopadoop when I've just saved you
from a dungeon?"

"No," admitted Mandy, resuming her seat thoughtfully, "I don't suppose
it is. Maybe you _are_ as good as a goat," she added with a little
burst of generosity.

"Oh, thank you! Thank you very much!" Through half closed eyes the
Royal Ox looked quizzically at the Goat Girl. "I believe we shall get
on famously, m'lass, famously. The truth is, you amuse me no end and so
long as you amuse me everything will be smooth as silk. But of course,
if you bore me, I will bore you. Oh, positively!" Lowering his head Nox
shook his horns playfully.

"Now I shouldn't try that, if I were you," advised Mandy, raising her
iron hand and cracking the fingers warningly. "For if you do, I might
throw things!"

"Ha ha! I believe you would." The enormous beast, charmed by so much
spirit and independence fairly beamed upon his new slave. "I take it
you are pretty good at throwing things."

"Yes, and at catching them, too." Reaching up, Mandy took seven of the
dozen brushes off the shelf above her head. Tossing them all into the
air with three of her hands, she caught them easily with the other
four. Then dragging her stool closer, she began brushing the coat of
her royal charge so hard and vigorously he blinked with pleasure and
astonishment. "Will you have your tail plain, curled or plaited?" asked
Mandy in a businesslike voice.

"Er--er--plain, thank you." With admiration and some alarm, Nox
regarded the whirling arms of the Goat Girl, but the four little stable
boys, appearing at that moment, stared at her in glassy eyed fright and
consternation. For Nox they had brought a tray heaped high with corn
and oats and another with fresh sliced apples. For Mandy there were two
trays of gold dishes containing a sample of everything from the royal
table. Dropping her brushes Mandy seized all the trays at once in her
various hands, which so frightened the stable boys they took to their
heels yelling at the tops of their voices.

Winking at the Royal Ox, Mandy set his supper on the gold stand meant
for that purpose, then dropping to the floor before her own two trays
began her first dinner in a strange land. And WHAT a strange land,
mused Mandy helping herself from the gold dishes with first one hand
and then another.

"Well, m'lass?" inquired Nox, daintily nibbling his oats and apples.
"Is this not better than bread and water in a dungeon cell?" Too full
for utterance, Mandy rapturously nodded.




CHAPTER 4

The Message in the Horn


After the Goat Girl had finished her supper and the stable boys had
hurried off with the trays, Nox showed his new slave to her quarters.
Handy Mandy, who had expected nothing better than a heap of straw in
the corner of an empty stall, decided that for a slave, she was faring
pretty well. A small but complete apartment had been built in the wing
next to Nox's stall, with not only a comfortable bedroom and bath, but
a small sitting room as well. The bed was a huge gold four poster with
blue silk sheets and comforters. Never in her hard and simple life had
Handy dreamed of such elegance!

"Here, try the chairs," urged Nox, trotting almost briskly into the
sitting room. This, Mandy was only too willing to do, and the pretty
little room with its book shelves, lamps and pictures seemed to the
honest Goat Girl much more desirable than the palace.

"All belonged to Kerry," mumbled the Royal Ox, settling himself largely
on a white rug beside her.

"Was Kerry one of your slaves?" asked Mandy, rocking herself cheerfully
to and fro with all her hands resting quietly in her lap.

"SLAVE!" The Ox spoke sharply. "I should say not. Kerry was a King! Our
own little King up to a few years ago, and what a lad he was--what a
lad!"

"Was?" exclaimed Mandy. "Why--what happened to him?"

"He disappeared," Nox told her sadly. "Nobody knows how--or where, just
disappeared, my girl, on a hunting trip, and this blue nosed scoundrel
who claims to be his uncle, came to rule over Keretaria. Since then,"
Nox lowered his voice cautiously, "everything is different--and
changed. The people are treated no better than dogs. DOGS!" repeated
the Royal Ox bitterly. "Of course this fellow cannot interfere with me
nor take any chances for there is a prophecy on the west wall of the
castle that has stood for a thousand years."

"What does it say?" asked Mandy, leaning forward and clasping the arms
of the rocker with all hands.

Impressively Nox repeated the prophecy: "So long as the Royal Ox of
Keretaria is in good health and spirits, so long and no longer shall
the present King rule over the Land."

"But who wrote it?" Mandy's rocker stopped with a surprised squeak.

"Nobody knows," answered Nox soberly, "but it has come true dozens and
dozens of times. Each time a new King is crowned in Keretaria a new Ox
appears mysteriously at the Royal coronation. If anything happens to
the Royal Ox the King also is destroyed!"

"My--y!" The Goat Girl now rocked very fast indeed. "So that's the
reason they take such good care of you, old Toggins. But tell me, where
do all of you Royal Oxen come from in the first place? And how is it
you can speak? None of the beasts on Mount Mern can say a word."

"Oh, that--" the Royal Ox lifted his head lazily. "Keretaria is in the
wonderful Land of Oz, my dear Handy, and all Oz creatures can talk,
even the mice and squirrels. But what part of Oz we white oxen really
come from, I myself cannot rightly say. I seem to remember a great blue
forest and many happy days there. Then one evening a silver cloth was
thrown over my head and I fell into a deep and immediate slumber. When
I awakened, I was here in Keretaria and on that same day little King
Kerry was crowned King of the Realm. From the attendants and courtiers
I soon learned of the strange prophecy, but the young boy King was so
devoted to me--and I to him, I did not miss the forest or my former
freedom.

"To be near me, Kerry had this apartment built in the stable and spent
more than half of his time in my company. My life being easy and
pleasant, I gave little thought to the past or to the future, but spent
all my energies enjoying the present. Once in a while just for the
looks of the thing, I appeared in Royal Processions, and each day at
sundown I was yoked for an hour to the golden plough and required to
stand for an hour in the royal garden. But I never did any real work or
ploughing, till you, my reckless Handy, came along today."

"But what about the little King?" begged the Goat Girl, as Nox lapsed
into a thoughtful silence and seemed to have forgotten all about her.

"He disappeared, just as I told you." The Royal Ox rolled his big
eyes mournfully upward. "On this day, as on many others, I carried
him on my back to the edge of the wood. There, mounting his favorite
steed, he rode away with the Royal Huntsmen for an hour's sport. As
I was returning to the castle someone struck me a terrific blow that
felled me to the earth, where I lay for several hours in complete
unconsciousness. Whoever struck me down evidently thought I was
finished, for when I finally did regain my senses, I was buried beneath
a heap of loose earth and leaves. Still dazed and hardly knowing what
I was about, I struggled out and staggered back to the courtyard. One
of my horns had been bent during the encounter and my expression was
so wild and distracted no one recognized me as BOZ, the Royal Ox of
Little King Kerry. The whole castle was in an uproar, for a new King
had taken possession of the throne and thinking, of course, I was
the next and new Royal Ox, this rascally imposter named me NOX. The
Keretarians, without daring to inquire what had become of their former
ruler, crowned me with daisies and laurel and hurried to do the bidding
of their new ruler."

"WHY--the big _cowards_!" said Handy Mandy, clenching all of her fists,
"And do you mean to tell me nothing has been heard of the little King
since then?"

"Nothing." The Royal Ox moved his head drearily from side to side. "The
people think the Royal Prophecy has been fulfilled again and what can
they DO? A farmer's boy brought word that Boz, the Royal Ox, had been
struck down and spirited away, so naturally they felt sure that Kerry
also had been destroyed or taken prisoner."

"Then no one suspects you are really Boz and not NOX?" questioned the
Goat Girl, now on the very edge of her chair. "Oh, my--y, but don't you
see, if you are still the same Ox who came to Keretaria with King Kerry
and you are still all right, he must be all right, too. That is, if the
prophecy means _anything_."

"Sh--hh!" warned Nox, looking about nervously. "Someone might hear you.
That is what keeps me here," he went on seriously. "I felt if I stayed
quietly in my place, Kerry would some day return, claim his own throne
and drive this miserable tyrant out of the country."

"Stay quietly here when the little fellow may be needing you!" cried
Handy aghast. "Oh, why don't you go look for him, you great big OX you!
Come on, what are we waiting for? Why I'll drag that old rascal off the
throne with my own hands," promised the Goat Girl indignantly waving
her arms.

"Wait! Stop!" Nox sprang up with surprising lightness for one usually
so ponderous and slow. "Do you realize that I am treasured and watched
more closely than the crown jewels? At this very moment twenty
guardsmen stalk round and round the stable. I have as much chance of
leaving Keretaria as a goldfish has of flying through a forest."

As if to prove his words a tall soldier in a blue shako thrust his head
suddenly through the window from the outside. "Is everything in order
and as you wish, your Highness?" puffed the Guard, looking suspiciously
at the Goat Girl's revolving arms.

"Everything is lovely," murmured the Ox in a sleepy voice. "My slave
here is doing her exercises and when she finishes she will polish my
horns." At his warning wink, Handy Mandy dropped all her arms at her
side.

"Well! Well! A pleasant evening to you," mumbled the soldier,
withdrawing his head after another disapproving look at the Goat Girl.
For a moment after he had disappeared neither spoke, then Handy Mandy,
snatching a silk cover from one of the pillows fell to polishing Nox's
left horn for very dear life.

"I can always think faster when I'm working," she observed earnestly.

"Think away," replied the Ox, closing his eyes so as not to see the
numerous hands flashing past his nose. "But be careful what you say and
do. If you rouse the suspicions of old King Kerr, you'll be flung into
a dungeon in spite of all my influence."

"Now don't you be worrying about me," chortled Handy with a little wink
and nod. "I've been taking care of myself and a flock of goats for ten
years! Say, this is a bend, for sure." The Goat Girl ran her rubber
fingers curiously along the curve in the Ox's left horn and then, with
one of her sudden and kind-hearted impulses, tried to straighten the
quirk with a quick twist of her wrist. Imagine, then, if you can, her
horror and surprise when the golden horn came off in her hand.

"Oh my goats and my goodness!" shuddered Handy hopping from one foot
to the other. "What'll I do? Where's some glue? Oh My--igh--igh! I'm
mighty sorry!"

"Sorry!" gulped the Royal Ox, glaring at the Goat Girl with rolling
eyes and lashing tail. But before he could lunge forward as he
certainly intended to do, Handy gave a little scream of excitement.
"Oh look," she panted, pointing all thirty-five fingers at the base of
Nox's horn, "Oh, my dear--ear, it screws on--there are regular grooves.
Wait--I'll have it back in a jiffy."

Nox, who couldn't possibly see the top of his own head, merely gave a
grunt, but Handy Mandy, lifting the horn in her wooden hand, screamed
again and then began to shake the horn violently. At her second shake,
two silver balls tumbled out and rolled away into a corner. Scrambling
after them, with Nox now as interested as she, the Goat Girl recovered
them both and dropped breathlessly on a sofa.

On closer examination Handy discovered the balls would open as easily
as cardboard Easter eggs, and with Nox's head resting heavily on her
shoulder she gave the first a quick turn. It came apart at once and in
the hollow center lay a small folded paper. Spreading it out on her
knees, Handy read in a hoarse whisper: "Go to the Silver Mountain of
OZ."

"Silver Mountain? Do you know where that is?" exclaimed the Goat Girl,
looking wildly round at Nox.

"No, but I'll wager my head it has something to do with Kerry! Quick,
m'lass, open the other ball."

With the trembling fingers of her good white hand the Goat Girl obeyed.
Inside the second sphere lay a small silver key. After they had
examined this and read the message all over again, Handy carefully
tucked the two articles back in the silver balls and returned the balls
to the golden horn. Then, hastily screwing the horn back on its base,
the two began whispering earnestly together.

"Mean to say you never knew your horn came off?" questioned Handy,
clasping and unclasping her hands. "Mean to say you never heard of this
Silver Mountain?"

"No to both questions," answered the Ox with an anxious little sigh.
"But now that we _do_ know, we must start off at once to search for
it and see for ourselves whether Kerry is imprisoned there by his
enemies. Though how we'll escape these guards or ever get away with
half the Kingdom watching, I cannot imagine!"

"Never fear, we'll manage," promised Handy easily. "Why with your horns
and my hands it will take an army to stop us. Now get your rest, Ox
dear, and in the morn's morning we'll be journeying."

"You're right," breathed the Ox, starting obediently toward his stall.
"I more than half believe you."

"Good night, then," called the Goat Girl softly. "Don't talk in your
sleep and give our plans away."




CHAPTER 5

Out of Keretaria!


Nox was asleep on a heap of white flower petals in the corner of his
stall, asleep and dreaming of the Silver Mountain of Oz, when a sharp
tap on the shoulder rudely awakened him.

"Come!" whispered an urgent voice. "Time to start! Come, I've managed
everything." Lurching to his feet and still in a daze, the Royal Ox
looked askance and with no great favor at the Goat Girl.

"Why, it's not even light!" he moaned feebly.

"Of course not," admitted Handy Mandy guardedly, "but I poked my nose
out the door a moment ago and saw all the guards were a bit drowsyish,
so I tapped them on the head with this." Handy Mandy raised her iron
hand and with a little grimace beckoned for Nox to hurry. "Come along
now, and we can be out of here before they know what's what or who."

So Nox, with a regretful look round his comfortable stall and a sigh
for his morning bath and breakfast, moved quietly after her. While the
Royal Creature had spent most of his time during the past two years
thinking of ways to rescue his young Master, now that he was actually
starting out he was filled with doubt and dismay. How could they ever
find this Silver Mountain and overcome the enemies that most certainly
would beset them?

The sight of the twenty guards lying in a stiff row somewhat reassured
the downhearted beast and in the dim light of early morning he looked
thoughtfully up at the sturdy mountain lass stepping so resolutely
beside him. In each hand Handy carried a different weapon, and resting
on her broad shoulders was a rake, an axe, one guard's gun, another
guard's sword, a spade and a long handled broom. Noting his astonished
glance, the Goat Girl grinned and with her one free hand touched her
fingers to her lips. So, silently and without exchanging a word, the
two crossed the stable yard, the Royal Park, hurried through a little
wood, and came out on a dusty blue Highway.

"NOW!" said Handy, looking up and down the road to make sure no one was
coming, "now we can talk and decide which direction to take."

"How can we do that," objected Nox, panting a little from the
unaccustomed exertion before breakfast, "when neither of us knows
where this Silver Mountain is?"

"Well, we have tongues, haven't we? And can ask, can't we?" Handy Mandy
rattled her weapons impatiently. "But before we worry about the Silver
Mountain we must get out of Keretaria. Which is the quickest way to the
border?"

"Oh, North," answered Nox promptly. "Keretaria is in the upper part of
the Munchkin Country of Oz and once we cross the Northern branch of the
Munchkin River, we'll be entirely out of the country."

"Fine! Then we'll go North. And what lies beyond the Munchkin River?"
inquired the Goat Girl, shifting the axe to her left shoulder.

"I've never crossed myself," admitted Nox, moving along in his slow and
dignified manner, "but I have heard there are many mountains and if we
go far enough the Purple Land of the Gillikins."

"Sounds interesting," decided Handy Mandy, "and who knows, among all
those mountains we may find the one we are looking for! By the way, am
I to call you Boz, Nox or Goldie Horns? But I believe I'll call you
Nox, for somehow I like Nox the Ox best."

"Anything you say," yawned her companion, switching his tail
negligently, "but I shall always call YOU, Handy Mandy. It suits you,
m'lass, and you need no longer consider yourself a slave."

"Ho, ho, I never did," roared the Goat Girl, glancing cheerfully
down at her lordly companion. "That was just a joke, wasn't it? You
know, everything in this Land of Oz is extremely funny and peculiar.
Two-armed natives, animals talking, Kings disappearing and mysterious
messages and prophecies."

"People always think a new country strange!" observed the Ox
philosophically. "To us it seems quite right and natural. But I daresay
if I were to find myself on Mt. Mern I'd consider everything there
very odd and upsetting; rocks flying through the air, for instance,
and landing one soft and light as a daisy in a strange King's garden."

"But all of our rocks don't fly, in fact I never knew one to do such a
thing before. And no wonder I landed as soft as a daisy--there was a
blue daisy under me or I'd have been splintered to smithereens!"

"Daisy?" Nox licked his lips hungrily. "You never said anything about a
daisy."

"Oh, I never tell all I know," confided Handy, "especially to
Hi-qui-cockadoodlums like the King and his Counselors. But there was
a daisy--growing on the rock and I picked it. As I started to fall I
began pulling off the petals, and when I landed I came down on a high,
huge pile of them, a heap as high as a haystack," continued Handy Mandy
dreamily. "So I slid off the stack and turned to look at the castle,
and when I looked again, the petals were gone, but there was the daisy
itself growing up as pert as you please in this strange garden. So what
did I do but pick it again and here it is!" Triumphantly Handy pulled
the blue flower from her pocket.

"My, what a dear little daisy!" murmured the Ox. "How delicious it
would taste."

"No! NO!" cried Handy, as Nox rolled his long tongue out toward the
flower. "It's too pretty to eat."

"Nothing's too pretty to eat," replied the Ox plaintively. "Funny it
hasn't wilted, though."

"Well, I believe it's magic," stated the Goat Girl, with a positive
little shake of her head. As she returned the daisy to her pocket,
Handy felt the hard metal object that had hit her in the forehead when
she and Nox ploughed through the King's garden.

"Look! What do you suppose this is?" she queried, tapping the Ox
sharply on the shoulder, for he was walking sleepily along with his
eyes closed. "This is what we dug up when we rushed through the garden,
you know."

"How should I know?" grunted the Ox indifferently, opening one eye.
"Just a silver hammer, isn't it? Maybe we can trade it for a good
breakfast when we cross the river."

"My--y--how you talk!" scolded Handy. "We're not going to trade it at
all. See, there's an initial on it. A big W. Now what would W stand
for?"

"Who, what, which, where, oh why worry?" mumbled the Ox, plodding
resignedly along beside her.

"Well, anyway, it will make a splendid potato masher," concluded the
Goat Girl, returning the hammer to her pocket.

"Yes, if we had any potatoes." The Ox sighed heavily as he spoke,
looking off into the distance with such a mournful eye Handy Mandy
laughed a little all to herself.

"Oh cheer up," sniffed the Goat Girl, "you're not starved yet. And
hurry up, too, the sun's going higher every moment and we'd better pass
those farms before the people waken."

It was against Nox's nature to hurry, but realizing the wisdom of the
Goat Girl's advice, he broke into an awkward gallop. In spite of his
great weight, the Royal creature was light as a daisy on his feet, and
except for the faint rattle of Handy's weapons they made little noise
as they ran past the dome-shaped blue houses and barns of the Munchkin
farmers.

"Couldn't we stop for a few greens?" puffed Nox, looking longingly over
the fence at a field of cabbages.

"Not here, dear--ear!" Red faced and breathless, the Goat Girl ran on.
"Wait till we cross this river--iver."

"But I'm not used to this--sort--of--thing," complained Nox peevishly.
"Running races before breakfast on an empty stomach. No bath--no
brush--no rub down!"

"Well, here's your brush," gasped Handy, picking her way through a
dense thicket as the highway ended in a small wood, "and yonder's your
bath, Mister. My--y, what a blue river!"

"Everything's blue in the Munchkin Country of Oz," Nox told her
sulkily, as sharp briers and thorns reached out to scratch his satiny
hide.

"Even the Royal Ox of Keretaria," hinted Handy with a sly wink. "Oh the
river's blue and the houses are blue and even the wind blew--Hoo Hoo!
Come on."

"Don't try to be funny," with heaving sides, the Ox stopped on the edge
of the gleaming blue stream. "Don't try to be funny, I beg."

"Oh, I don't have to try, I am!" laughed Handy, flinging the axe, the
rake, the spade, the sword, the gun and the broomstick across the river.

"Wait!" snorted the Ox, as Handy, having got rid of her load, raised
all of her hands above her head and prepared to dive in. "Wait, can you
swim?"

"I don't know, but I'll soon find out," cried Handy, and before Nox
could prevent it, the Goat Girl leapt off the bank and disappeared
beneath the blue waters of the Munchkin River. For once, Nox forgot his
dignity and Royal station and plunged frantically after his reckless
companion. Swimming around with his head under water, he finally
located Handy Mandy and gripping her yellow plaits firmly in his teeth,
dragged her to the opposite bank. The Goat Girl was so full of water,
she had little to say and lay soggily on the grass while Nox looked
down at her with mingled admiration and concern.

"Never do such a thing again," he wheezed severely as Handy finally sat
up and began wringing the water from her voluminous skirts. "Swimming
is an art and must be learned and practiced. But for oat's sake, why
didn't you flap all those arms when you hit the water?" he finished
irritably.

"Oh, is that what you're supposed to do? This way?" Before Nox could
step a step, the Goat Girl had jumped into the river again. This time
instead of going down she splashed and whirled her seven arms so fast
and furiously she just managed to keep her head above water. But Nox,
now thoroughly annoyed and without giving her a chance to get far from
shore, waded in and determinedly dragged her back to dry land.

"What in skyblue onions are you trying to do?" he sputtered angrily,
"Drown yourself?"

"No, I'm trying to swim," coughed the Goat Girl, struggling to get
away from the angry Ox. "Do you suppose I'm going to let this Munchkin
River get the best of me?"

"Yes, and while you are swimming or rather practicing your swimming
some of these Keretarians will come and capture us," gurgled Nox. "Are
we escaping or are we swimming--quick now, make up your mind."

Nox's earnest words brought Handy quickly to her senses and as the
Royal Ox let go her skirts, she snatched up her weapons and without
waiting to wring out her clothes started briskly across the meadows.

"Never mind, you'll be a fine swimmer some day," said Nox, trotting
more amiably beside her. The cool river water had refreshed the Royal
creature and Handy Mandy's determination and courage made him a little
ashamed of his own complaints. "Takes a little practice, that's all."

"Practice!" repeated Handy, dripping water from every plait and pore.
"Well just wait till we come to the next river, I'll show you! But
LOOK, here are more blue houses, so we must still be in the Munchkin
Country."

"Yes, but we're out of Keretaria," Nox reminded her cheerfully. "What's
that signpost say, my girl?"

Hurrying forward, Handy squinted up at the rough board nailed to a blue
spruce and then began to clench and unclench her one free fist.

    "TURN HERE!"

directed the sign. "Turn here and go straight back where you came from."

"Well, I'll be buttered!" cried the Goat Girl, throwing down every one
of her weapons. "I'll be churned and buttered."

"But what had we butter do?" muttered the Royal Ox, so taken aback by
the saucy message that even his tongue was twisted.

"Why, we'll go straight on, of course," declared Handy Mandy, tossing
her yellow plaits defiantly. "Who are whoever they are to tell us our
business?" And recovering her weapons one by one, the Goat Girl tramped
down the crooked lane directly ahead of them, the Royal Ox with lifted
nose and horns, stepping warily behind her.




CHAPTER 6

Turn Town!


Determined as she was, Handy found it impossible to go straight on,
for the lane curved and twisted this way and that, ending finally in a
perfect corkscrew turn. The trees on both sides were now so dense Handy
and the Royal Ox could not have left the road even had they wished to
do so.

"We're going round and round and getting nowhere," said Nox in an
abused voice. "Of all the roads in Oz why did we have to pick this
one?"

"Because it dared us, I suppose. Hi--Yi!" exclaimed Handy, leaning
against a tree to rest. "I'm dizzy as a bat and hungry as a goat."

"Too bad you're not a goat," murmured Nox, who had stopped to nibble
the lower branches of a maple. "These leaves are quite tender."

"Well, I may come to them," sighed Handy, looking at him enviously.
"But shall we go on? I think one more turn will bring us out of here."

Handy was right for one more round brought them to the end of corkscrew
lane, but only to find themselves facing a high, forbidding wall. There
was a gate and turnstile in the wall, and beyond the Goat Girl caught
a glimpse of a confused whirling village where everything seemed to
be turning round or over. "It's just because I'm so dizzy," thought
Handy, clutching her head with her one free hand. But Nox, peering over
her shoulder gave a loud and indignant bellow as a house on the corner
of the street nearest them turned completely over and began spinning
merrily on its chimney, while the fence running round the bakery shop
next door started really to run around, kicking up its posts with great
glee and abandon.

"Hu--what kind of silly place is this?" rumbled the Ox backing hastily
away. But Handy Mandy had seen a whole row of little pies in the
bakeshop window and motioning vigorously for Nox to follow, stepped
over the stile and through the movable gate. It was too much of a
squeeze for Nox, but determined not to be left behind, he jumped neatly
over. A revolving sign on one of the large public buildings caught
their attention at once, but as the building was going one way and the
sign another, it was several minutes before they could discover what it
said.

"TURN TOWN!" read the Goat Girl in some surprise. "So that's where
we are! And would you loo--ook, every house on every street is going
round or over. Mercy--ercy on us and where do you suppose the people
are?"

"Turning over and over in their beds I take it, it is still quite
early, you know," whispered the Royal Ox, speaking cautiously out of
the corner of his mouth. "But come on, the streets are not turning, and
perhaps if we hurry we can go through before they waken and turn on us.
Hurry--hurry--what are you waiting for?"

"Food," sighed Handy wistfully. "I thought I might catch us a few pies,
Old Toggins. Here, watch my stuff and I'll bring us each some."

Nox looked sharply up and down the street as the Goat Girl set down
her axe, rake, spade, gun, broom and sword, and started off toward the
bakery.

Not only the fence but the shop itself was turning now. Handy quite
cleverly waited till the gate came opposite her and dashed through, but
the open door of the shop kept going by so rapidly she was knocked down
several times before she finally darted inside. As she disappeared Nox
gave an uneasy snort, but cheered up as the shop window came past and
he saw Handy with a pie in every hand, smile at him reassuringly. But
alas, the whirling floor of the shop was too much for the Goat Girl
and as she started out there was a clatter of broken china and falling
furniture.

"Great Gazoo, what's she done now?" moaned Nox as Handy leaped through
the door and fell sprawling in the little garden. She still had six of
the pies clutched in her various hands, but as she jumped up and raced
through the garden gate, windows all up and down the street were flung
open. From the right side up ones and the down side down ones kinky
black heads came popping out by the hundred.

"Turn out! Turn out! Topsies turn out!" yelled the excited citizens,
their voices going higher and higher. "Thieves, robbers, tramps and
Stand-Stillians!"

"Here," gasped the Goat Girl reaching Nox in one bound. "Eat these
quick and destroy the evidence." Stuffing one of the tarts into her own
mouth, Handy made a wry face. "Ugh, TURNIPS!" choked the Goat Girl,
dropping the other five in huge disgust. "Whoever heard of turnip
turnovers?"

"I'll eat them," offered Nox, lapping up the little pies in his stride,
"but run--hurry, here come the natives!" But before Handy could snatch
up her weapons, the Topsies, hurling out of windows and doors, came
whirling down upon them.

Startled though she was, the Goat Girl could not disguise her interest
and curiosity. With one arm round Nox's neck and the other six
stretched stiffly before her to keep back the screeching crowd, she
stared with round and fascinated eyes. And, no wonder! The Topsies were
about as tall as children, but where their feet should have been, they
had sharp horny pegs. Another peg of the same description sprung from
each kinky head. With their plump hands the small black and blue men
and women spun themselves along by cords attached to their round little
middles and they kept reversing themselves, spinning first on one end
and then another in a manner very upsetting and confusing to their
visitors. The hum made by the Topsies' spinning and their loud raucous
cries filled the early morning air, and as Handy tried to push her way
through the crowd, several butted her with their sharp pegs.

"Ouch! Stop that!" bellowed Nox, who had been butted too. "Keep still,
m'lass, and sooner or later these little pests will run down."

"Turn them out! Turn them in! Turn them round! Turn them over!"
shrieked the Topsies hysterically. In the midst of the dreadful
confusion, a Topsy taller than all the rest came zooming down the
middle of the street.

"Look! STAND-STILLIANS!" shouted a round little spinster waving both
arms. "Travelers with legs instead of pegs. Robbers! Thieves! And
tramps, your Topjesty."

"Yes, and they have broken into my shop and stolen all my turnip
turnovers," screamed the Topsy Baker, spinning round in indignant
circles. "Aha, you wait, here comes Tip-Topper. Now you'll catch it
you, you Turnover snatchers, you!"

"Now you'll catch it!" shrilled all the rest of the Topsies, spinning
faster and faster till Handy and Nox were dizzy just from looking at
them.

Except for his size and a flag fluttering from the peg on his head,
Tip-Topper looked just like his subjects.

"Spin! Spin!" he whistled angrily. "What do you mean standing still in
the middle of Turn Town? Don't you realize you are breaking every one
of our rotary laws? Why are you here--did you come to do us a good turn
or a bad?"

"Turn 'em down! Turn 'em out! Turn 'em over! Turn 'em round!" insisted
the townsmen shrilly.

Between the revolving houses and the spinning Topsies, Handy Mandy
scarcely knew which foot she was standing on. As for Nox, he gave a
great groan and closing his eyes, left everything to his companion.
Handy put two hands over her ears and raising all the others, addressed
Tip-Topper in a firm and reasonable manner.

"Tell your people to stand back," directed the Goat Girl calmly. "All
we wish is to pass quietly through your city and never return. NEVER!"
she repeated emphatically. It was hard to speak to a person who kept
going round and round, but at every third turn Handy managed to catch
Tip-Topper's eye and at last he seemed to catch her idea.

"Very well, then, GO!" he commanded haughtily. "And at once!" But
when Handy, without stopping to pick up her weapons, started forward,
perfect shrieks of anger rose on all sides.

"Not that way! Not that way. Turn! Turn! Turn!" yelled the Topsies.
And getting back of Handy and the Royal Ox, they tried to push them
round by main force.

"Stop! Stop! It's no use," panted Tip-Topper, as Nox letting out a
frightful bellow, laid seven Topsies by the pegs with his left hind
foot, and Handy with a sweep of her arms swept down ten more. "They're
all made wrong. Fetch the Turn Coat, drive them to the turning point
and we'll turn them to Topsies in two shakes of a tent pole."

"M--mmmmm! M--mmmmm! Did you hear what I heard?" Nox peered desperately
around at Handy, who was now spinning dizzily herself, as she was
flung and pushed from one group to another. "Could they really turn us
to Topsies?"

"I don't know! I don't know! Oh my head, my HEAD!" moaned the Goat
Girl, clutching it with all hands. "It's going round and round--"

"Fine! Fine! That's the way!" cheered the Topsies heartily. "You'll be
spinning circles before you know it and have beautiful wool like the
rest of us."

"Wool!" gasped Handy, who was extremely proud of her shining yellow
braids. "Oh, I wool not, that's just too much! Stand back you little
buzzards and I'll show you a turn or two myself."

"Go ahead," said Turn Uppins, who seemed next in importance to
Tip-Topper himself. "It's your turn anyway. Stand back Topsies, and let
this waddling whangus show us what she can do."

At a signal from their leader the Turn Towners fell back a pace and
spinning in a loud agitated circle, impatiently waited for the Goat
Girl to take her turn. First Handy shook her head to dispel the
dizziness, then with a loud screech, she flung her arms and heels into
the air in such a succession of hand springs that even the Topsies were
impressed. The seventh brought her back to the Royal Ox and in the
center of a now cheering and admiring circle, she turned fifty more so
fast that she looked like an animated cartwheel with arms and leg's for
spokes. A loud buzz of applause went up as Handy finally fell over from
sheer exhaustion, but then they began pointing accusing fingers at Nox.

"Look! Look at the stupid Gumflumox, why he hasn't turned a single
hair."

"How about turning on them," raged Nox, "and tossing a few dozen on my
horns? Hop on my back, m'lass, and we'll make a run for it."

"No! No! There are too many, we'll be perfectly punctured," worried
Handy, as seven Topsies prodded the Royal Ox sharply in the flank. "We
might run right into that turning point, too. Wait! Wait! I'll think
of something. We don't want to spin on here forever, whatever happens!
Whew--hewey, what a dust the little pests kick up. I'd give my best
hand for a drink, I'm choking with thirst. Oh! Oh! I wish I were in a
river right this minute." Steadying herself by holding to Nox's right
horn, Handy faced the angry multitude.

"Turn! Turn! Take your turn!" shouted the Topsies incessantly. "Can't
you even turn your head old four-leg!"

"Of course he can," shouted Handy Mandy, clapping six of her hands
for silence. "Not only his head, but his horns. Watch this, my
friends!" The Goat Girl gave the horn she was leaning on a sharp twist.

"Not that one. Not that one!" fumed the Ox anxiously. "Quick, the
other--it's the other one, I tell you! Oh, my hide, hair, and Heavens!
Ulp! Gurgle Ooooop!"

And "Oooop gurgle ULP!" it was with everyone, for at Handy Mandy's
second turn, Nox's horn came completely off and as the goat girl held
it up for the Topsies to see, out spurted a perfect torrent of water
that flooded the whole city till every Turner and Topsy-turvy house in
it was awash or afloat. In wild and astonished voices the kinky headed
little citizens called out to each other as they bobbed up and down
like corks on the raging tide. And just as wet and surprised as the
Topsies, the Goat Girl and Nox were swept along by the impetuous flood.




CHAPTER 7

A Horn of Plenty


After the first awful ducking, Handy, without losing a second began
to practice her swimming. Striking out with strength and purpose and
her seven good arms she managed to keep abreast of Nox, who was moving
easily along in the center of the torrent. Bothersome as the Topsies
had been, the Goat Girl could not help feeling sorry for the little
Turn Towners. At first, she feared they would all go down. But they
just spun round like water bugs on the surface and, while they made
no progress, seemed in little danger of drowning. In fact they could
no more sink than corks or kindling. So, busy with her own struggles,
Handy dismissed them from her mind and tried to figure out the reason
for the sudden and overwhelming rush of water that had deluged the city.

At any rate it was fine to be rid of the Topsies, she reflected
philosophically, and when the flood did recede, Turn Town would be good
as new and twice as clean. The current was racing along so swiftly
now, the last Topsy had long since disappeared, leaving only herself
and Nox in the broad tumbling expanse of water. Nox had not uttered
a word since his first outcry when the flood had overtaken them, but
he looked so glum and disagreeable that Handy, thrashing along beside
him, wondered what would be the best way to start a conversation. As it
happened, the Royal beast saved her the trouble by starting one himself.

"Well," he snorted bitterly. "I see you still have it."

"WHAT?" gulped the Goat Girl, forgetting to use her arms for a moment
and in consequence, shipping about a bucket of water. "Ulp--gulp--have
what?"

"My horn. HORN!" gurgled Nox, glaring at her angrily over a wave. "And
if in the future you will keep your hands, all of them, off my horns,
it will be the better for us." This seemed to Handy a very unjust and
unreasonable attitude for Nox to take, but she was too occupied keeping
afloat to stop and argue the matter.

"Swim closer and I'll screw it back," she offered, obligingly holding
up the wooden hand in which she still clutched the right half of the
royal headgear. But at this, poor Nox was deluged by a robust stream
that still poured from the golden horn. Hastily plunging it under the
surface again, Handy watched her fellow adventurer emerge sputtering
and furious from the depths.

"Well of all the stupid tricks!" gasped the Ox, swimming rapidly away
from her. "Stop--keep off--don't you dare come near me."

"But see here," panted Handy, going after him in real exasperation.
"After all it is your horn, and am I to blame if there is a river
inside? What do you want me to do, throw it away?"

"No! No!" bellowed the Ox, stopping short and looking frantically
over his shoulder. "If you throw it away I'll look like a fool, if
you keep holding it we'll spend the rest of our lives swimming round
in this torrent--if you screw it back on my head--it will probably
give me water on the brain. Oh--blub glub! what shall we do? THINK of
something, can't you, before we both drown in your stupid old river?"

"My river!" Handy Mandy was so indignant that for a moment she was
perfectly speechless.

"Yes, your river!" roared Nox, treading water angrily. "Didn't you wish
for a river just before you jerked off my horn. Well, this is it and I
hope you like it."

"Why Nox, how clever of you to guess," bubbled the Goat Girl, a great
light breaking over her wet head. "I remember now, I was thirsty and
wished for a drink, then a whole river, and lo! a river was here."

"You mean HIGH it was here," raged Nox, beginning to swim again.

"But look," cried Handy, beating and slapping the water exultantly
with her many hands. "If that is so, all we have to do is to wish it
away again. I'm still holding the horn and there's magic in it, old
Toddywax--MAGIC! I here and now wish this river AWAY."

Handy yelled her wish in a booming voice that almost split the Ox's
ear-drums and both were so sure the wish would be granted they stopped
swimming, so both had a fine ducking as the river continued to rush
merrily and unconcernedly over their heads.

"Bosh! It wasn't magic after all. My--y, if I ever get out of here,
I'll never go swimming again as long as I live," sobbed Handy, pushing
her arms and legs wearily through the water.

"Oh, I think I'll just sink and be done with it," moaned the Ox,
churning breathlessly along beside her.

"You think you'll sink!" exclaimed Handy, popping her head up
indignantly. "Don't you dare sink and leave me here all alone. Besides,
we set out to find that little King and we're going to find him!
Where's your sporting blood?"

"Watered!" gurgled the Royal Ox in a faint voice. "Goodbye, m'lass,
you probably did it all for the best!" It seemed to the Goat Girl that
Nox was really sinking so, flinging out her leather hand, she grasped
him firmly by his left horn. Then, acting quickly, and before he could
object, Handy pushed his head under water and quickly screwed his right
horn in place.

"I wish this dumb river would go straight back where it came from,"
quavered Handy as Nox bellowing and bubbling backed indignantly away.
And THIS time the river went. So suddenly and completely the Goat Girl
and the Ox were dropped forty feet to the bottom of a rocky gorge
through which the torrent had been tumbling. For a long moment they lay
where they had fallen, then stiffly they arose and peered anxiously
around them. Handy, thanks to her voluminous petticoats, was saved from
serious injury and Nox, who had landed in a patch of brush was not
dangerously hurt, either. But they both were so shocked, shaken and
worn out from their long swim they were perfectly content to stay where
they were.

"You see," sighed Handy, wringing out her skirts with four hands and
smoothing back her hair with the other three. "The magic is in the horn
and only works when you are wearing it. As soon as I screwed it back
and made the wish everything was all right."

"Oh, was it?" Scowling round at his scratched flanks and skinned shins,
the Royal Ox shook his head dubiously.

"And just think," continued the Goat Girl brightly. "If your horn
really is a wishing horn, as soon as we decide where we want to go, all
we have to do is wish ourselves there."

"No! No! Absolutely no more of that," squealed Nox, lashing his tail
and flashing his eyes dangerously. "Your last wish nearly killed me,
and if any more wishing is to be done, I'll attend to it myself."

"But how can you unscrew, or even touch your own horn all by yourself?"
inquired Handy reasonably. "You see, you need my hands, and I need
your horns." Throwing back her head, Handy burst into a loud chuckle,
thinking how comical she would look if she actually wore Nox's golden
headgear.

"Oh, why not go on the way we started?" said the Ox querulously. "I'd
rather travel on my feet than my horns any day, and had you noticed,
Handy, that these rocks are purple? Your river has carried us clear
into the Gillikin Country where there are mountains galore and even a
silver one for all we know."

"Yes, but is there anything to eat?" asked the Goat Girl in a hollow
voice. "If those rude little Topsies had just given us some breakfast."

"I expect all they eat is spinach or turnips," sniffed Nox, "and you
would not have cared for either. Well, at any rate we're even. You
certainly turned the tide on them, m'lass." Nox, who was beginning
to feel more cheerful, began to shake all over. "I'll wager my tail
they'll be more polite to travellers in the future."

"Well, as it all turned out so well, let's make another wish," proposed
Handy Mandy practically. "Let's wish ourselves out of here. No use
scrambling over all these rocks, when all we have to do is to wish
ourselves to the spot where your little King happens to be."

"M-m-mm, M-m-m!" mused Nox, half closing his eyes. "Nothing is as easy
as that, and I cannot help feeling--"

"Neither can I," said Handy, and stepping briskly up to the royal
Ox, she gave his right horn a determined twist, at the same time
saying softly: "I wish myself and Nox with Kerry, the rightful ruler
of Keretaria." Nox twitched his ears nervously as his horn came off
in the Goat Girl's best white hand and Handy herself, with all her
arms outspread as if she were a bird about to take flight, waited
in rapturous expectation for her wish to take effect. But this time
nothing at all happened. Neither she nor the Ox moved an inch.

"There you are, I told you it wouldn't work," grumbled Nox, looking at
her crossly. "It's probably not magic at all."

"Oh yes it is," insisted Handy, screwing up her eye and peering down
into the hollow interior. "It gave us a river when we asked for it and
you can't get away from that."

"We certainly had a hard enough time getting away from it," agreed her
companion. "Come now, be a good girl, screw back that horn and let's be
starting on."

"But I just cannot understand why it grants some wishes and not
others," muttered Handy discontentedly. "When I was thirsty and wished
for a river, I got a river--A-HA! I have it. This horn gives you
things but does not take you places. Now let's see, what do we need the
most?"

"Breakfast," suggested the Ox in an interested voice. "Oats and apples
for me, eggs, rolls and coffee for you. But for GOAT'S sake be careful
how you wish, m'lass. We don't want too much even of a good thing, and
one can drown in coffee or smother in oats. Remember the river and be
exact as to size and quantity."

"My--y, this wishing is dreadfully complicated." Rubbing her forehead
with one hand after the other, Handy Mandy prepared to order breakfast.
First she screwed the right horn back on the head of the Ox, then
pursing her lips firmly, she spoke: "I wish for Nox, two measures of
oats and apples, for myself, two plates of eggs and rolls and one cup
of coffee." Turning the horn round till it came off once more, the Goat
Girl almost held her breath as the two breakfasts were set promptly and
noiselessly down on the rock at her feet.

"Now you're getting the idea!" Happily Nox advanced upon his breakfast.

"Say, isn't this simply manubious?" cried Handy, snapping her
thirty-five fingers for sheer joy. "Why, Nox, your horn is a real horn
of plenty!"

"And plenty of trouble if you don't watch your wishes," mumbled her
partner, already up to his ears in oats.

"Oh, I'll be careful, never fear," promised Handy, screwing the horn
back on its base and falling upon her breakfast with a right good will
and appetite. "Won't the eyes of the villagers at home stick out when I
tell them about this?"

"Yes, provided you ever GET home," observed the Ox, who seemed always
to take a dark view of the future. But Handy Mandy, popping the last
of the biscuits into her mouth, scarcely heard him. Now that they need
no longer worry about provisions for the journey, she felt that they
would safely reach the Silver Mountain wherever it might be, rescue the
little King from his enemies and restore him to his throne. Then after
seeing all she wished of the marvelous country of Oz, she would return
to Mt. Mern and startle the country folk with the amazing story of her
travels.

"Come along," she called gaily. "Let's climb out of here." With some
astonishment they watched the empty containers and dishes vanish
away, and then saying very little but thinking a great deal, the two
adventurers began to scramble up the rocky sides of the gorge.




CHAPTER 8

Handy Mandy Learns about Oz!


Handy, who had climbed up and down mountains all her life, reached the
top of the gorge first and with her various hands tugged Nox up the
last steep incline.

"So--this is the Gillikin Country!" panted the Goat Girl, staring away
over the heather covered Highlands. "Now about the natives, do they
spin, bounce or tumble?"

"That, I really couldn't say," gasped Nox, leaning against a tree to
regain his wind, "but as you can see, my girl, all the hills, trees and
vegetation shade from violet to purple. Lovely color, purple!"

"I suppose purple would appeal to a Royal Ox like you." Resting her
hands on her hips, Handy Mandy squinted critically about her. "Now as
for me, I prefer the more cheerful colors, red, yellow or green, for
instance."

"Then you'd like the Quadling and Winkie Countries," murmured Nox,
nibbling languidly at the tops of the heather, "or the Emerald City. We
have all color countries in Oz and a body can take his choice."

"Oh, we'll just take them as they come," decided the Goat Girl
sensibly, "or at least, till we find your young Master and this Silver
Mountain. But tell me, Nox, is each country in Oz a different color and
is there really an Emerald City?" Moving slowly through the heather the
Royal Ox nodded his lordly head.

"Take that stick," he directed, coming to a ponderous stop, "and I'll
show you how Oz looks. See, on that level bit of sand there, just draw
an oblong." Quite interested, Handy marked out an oblong with the point
of the stick. "Connect the corners," breathed the Ox, lifting his
forefoot complacently, "and what have you?"

"Four triangles," answered the Goat Girl promptly.

"Put a circle in the center where all the triangles meet." Nox fairly
radiated pride and importance as his geozophy lesson progressed.

"Then what?" demanded Handy, the stick upraised in her rubber hand.

"That's all!" Tossing back his horns, the Ox surveyed his pupil
triumphantly. "Simple, isn't it? That triangle on the west is the blue
Munchkin Country we have just left, the triangle to the north is the
purple Gillikin Country we are just entering. Over there on the east,
we have the Yellow empire of the Winkies and to the south the red
lands of the Quadlings. In the circle is the Emerald City of Oz, and
surrounding the whole Kingdom is a deadly desert of burning sand."

"My--y!" marveled the Goat Girl, clasping all her hands but one behind
her back, "the desert I crossed when I fell in Keretaria?"

"Of course," answered Nox, snapping lazily at a purple dragon fly.
"Mt. Mern must lie to the west of Oz, on the other side of the deadly
desert. There are many countries beyond the desert, but I know very
little about them as there are only Oz maps in the castle at home."

"Then I suppose the King of Keretaria is King of the Munchkins?" said
Handy, looking thoughtfully down at her map.

"Oh, my, no!" The Royal Ox positively chuckled at such an idea.
"Keretaria is just one of the small countries of the West. Cheeriobed
is King of the Munchkins and he lives in the Sapphire City seventy
leagues below our southernmost borderline. Glinda, the Good Sorceress,
rules all the small Kingdoms in the Quadling Country, the Tin Woodman
of Oz is Emperor of the Winkies and Jo King governs the Gillikins.
Besides these, there are Kings, Queens and Princes galore, but most
important of all is Ozma, the young Fairy who lives in the Emerald
City, for Ozma is supreme sovereign of the entire Kingdom of Oz."

"Dear--ear what a lot to remember," groaned the Goat Girl. "And all
these other Kings and Queens have to do what Ozma says? However does
she keep track of them all? I'll bet they're worse than a flock of
goats."

"Oh, she manages," said the Ox, beginning to move slowly forward.
"Being a fairy and having a wizard right in her own castle, Ozma knows
what is going on without even turning her head."

"Even where we are going?" exclaimed Handy Mandy indignantly.
"Hi--yi--what a little busy-body. I just know I won't like her."

"Well, in that case she will just have to give up her throne and throw
her crown out of the window, I suppose! Better have a care, m'lass,
you're speaking of a powerful fairy, you know." Nox looked so stern
as he went plowing through the heather, Handy began to feel a little
uneasy herself.

"But how could a fairy in the center of Oz see way off here?" she
demanded scornfully.

"Magic, that's how!" explained Nox, looking very calm and superior.
"In her castle Ozma has a magic picture that shows her everything she
wishes to see."

"I don't believe it," scoffed the Goat Girl, swinging all her arms
recklessly, "and besides, why would she wish to see us and this
particular piece of country at this particular minute?"

"I'm sure I don't know," said the Royal Ox haughtily. "But I do say, be
careful. There, what did I tell you!" Framed in the woodwork of a small
summer-house they were approaching was a large poster.

"You are now in the Land of Oz," stated the poster, pleasantly enough.
"Be good to us and we'll be good to you. Keep our laws and practice
no magic, either for good or evil. By order of Her Imperial Highness,
Queen Ozma of Oz." Below was the bright green seal of Oz and a picture
of its pretty dark haired ruler.

"Why she's nothing but a little girl!" cried Handy, positively aghast
at such a state of affairs. "How could a little mite like that rule a
whole country and be so bossy?"

"Oh, hush!" begged Nox, rolling his eyes anxiously. "Mite or not, Ozma
is a mighty powerful and important fairy."

"Well, we're pretty important ourselves," sniffed the Goat Girl,
squinting at the poster with all her arms akimbo. "And besides," Handy
lifted her chin defiantly, "we've broken the law already when we used
your gold horn of plenty. 'Practice no magic.' Hoh! What does she
expect us to do with good magic right at hand--starve? But, ho ho! We
can get around that, old Toggins. After all, we are not practicing
magic, we don't have to practice it--our magic is perfect, so put that
in your pipe and smoke it Miss Ozma to Bozma." Snatching up a rock in
each of her seven hands, Handy flung them hilariously over a clump of
prune trees. (Yes, prunes already wrinkled grow in the Land of Oz.)
There was an uncomfortable little silence after Handy's rash outburst,
then a perfect tempest of shrieks and screeches.

"Now, see what you've done," gulped the Ox, switching his tail
nervously. "Quick, quick, jump on my back and we'll rush by. These
chaps look dangerous."

"Why, they have HOOK noses!" sputtered Handy, too startled to move, as
a band of kilted Highlanders came racing down toward them. The noses
of these singular Hill-men were long and thin, curving out and up far
above their foreheads. On these hooks hung dangerous looking rings
almost as large as barrel hoops. While Handy was wondering what they
could be for, the nearest Hooker pulled a ring from his nose and flung
it with all his might at her head.

"Up. UP!" bellowed Nox, pawing the ground in his agitation. "Are you
going to stand there till you are pegged like a top?" The iron ring
missed Handy by mere inches and grasping Nox's horn she pulled herself
to his back. There were about sixty of the hook noses, and swinging
to the left, Nox tried to skirt the war-like tribe, but they were too
quick for him, and spreading out in a long line they began hurling
their wicked whizzing weapons. One caught neatly on the horn of the
Royal Ox, another hit Handy a horrid blow on the knee, and as Nox,
snorting and furious turned to run, a dozen more came whanging down
about their ears. Dodging left and right, Handy Mandy leaned forward
and began to unscrew Nox's right horn.

"'Be good to us and we'll be good to you!' HOH! Like fun you will!"
muttered the Goat Girl, catching six of the flying missiles in her
clever hands and tossing them back with all her might. "Take that and
these and them and THOSE!" Pulling off the Ox's horn with the only
hand she had left, she added desperately, "I wish a barrel of molasses
over the head of each Hook Nose in this band. Cats, Bats and Billy
Goats! They've GOT me!" And they had, too, for just as Handy finished
her wish, down flashed an iron ring pinioning her arms tightly to her
sides. Still grasping the precious horn, Handy dug her heels into Nox.

"Hurt?" grunted the Ox, leaping forward.

"Not hurt, just hooked and humiliated, can't move a muscle," raged the
Goat Girl. "But ha ha! Neither can they! LOOK!" Nox, who had been
bellowing too hard to hear Handy's wish or miss his horn glanced back
hurriedly.

"Why! What's come over them?" he wheezed in astonishment. "Who snuffed
them out with barrels and what's that sticky fluid running all around?"

"Molasses," Handy told him with extreme satisfaction as she tried
vainly to wriggle out of her ring. "I wished barrels of molasses on
their heads and we'd better dash on while they're stopped and stuck
with it."

"Then you've been breaking the law again," reproached Nox, dodging in
and out and around their frantic enemies.

"Well, as between broken heads and broken laws, I choose the
laws. Besides, look what they did to me!" exclaimed the Goat Girl
indignantly. "I may never get this hoop off or be able to lift a hand
again. Nice people you have in Oz, I must say."

"If you hadn't hit them with stones, they wouldn't have hit us with
hoops," Nox reminded her sternly, at the same time breaking into a
gallop to put as much distance as possible between himself and the
troublesome Gillikins. A few had managed to lift the barrels from their
heads, but most of them were rolling over and over on the ground, half
choked with rage and molasses.

"When we stop I think I can help you," promised Nox, looking anxiously
at Handy, who was now quite purple in the face from her struggles with
the hoop. "Just forget it, can't you, and think of the interesting
people we are meeting. I'll wager you have no hook noses on Mt. Mern!"

"I should say NOT!" sputtered the Goat Girl in disgust, and then
realizing she was making no progress with the ring, sensibly gave up
the attempt to free herself. Somewhat comforted by the thought that
the Hook Noses were probably as uncomfortable as she was, Handy kept a
sharp lookout for natives. If they ran into any more she wanted to be
sure of seeing them first.

But the rocky hills and glades were entirely deserted and at every step
the way became more mountainous and lonely. Nox, panting and wheezing
from the long pull, slackened his pace to a walk. Handy Mandy with some
difficulty managed to dismount, and the Ox slipping his horn under the
offending ring, gently forced it upward till the Goat Girl was able
to wiggle free. Then together they climbed up the flinty inclines--up
and up till they came to a wide ledge and a sparkling waterfall. Here
they had a drink without having to wish for one, Nox sticking his head
right into the water and Handy cupping three pairs of her hands to hold
enough to satisfy her thirst.

"Ho hum," sighed the Ox, "I wonder how much farther we'll have to go
before we can find anyone who can direct us to this Silver Mountain?
I'm sure I saw some castles when we were below."

"So did I," said Handy, screwing his right horn back with a
businesslike flourish. "My--y, seems a long time since we started from
Keretaria. Do you suppose they have missed us yet?"

"Probably," yawned the Ox, scratching his back against a rock, while
Handy, suddenly deciding she needed another drink, stepped close to the
waterfall. But instead of quenching her thirst, the Goat Girl spilled
water all over her feet.

"Nox! Nox!" she screamed, jerking all her thumbs in his direction.
"Come! Look here! There's a big hollow behind this waterfall--a high
wall of rock with a door in it! I can see it!"

"Well," sniffed the Ox, rubbing his back luxuriously, "does it say
'come in'? Must we try every door we come to?"

"Yes," Handy Mandy told him firmly, "we must! Where there's a door
there's bound to be a door-keeper or at least someone who might tell us
where we are. Now then, I'll jump through the waterfall first and knock
on the door. There wouldn't be room for you on the ledge until the door
is open."

"Sounds risky!" objected the Royal Ox, putting back his ears. "What
kind of people would live behind a waterfall? Ask yourself that." But
the Goat Girl, without stopping to ask herself anything, had already
plunged through the misty sheet of water, and gasping and spluttering
was hammering on the door with all seven of her fists.




CHAPTER 9

The Magic Hammer


There was no answer to Handy's loud knocks, and pausing to catch her
breath and blow on her fingers, the Goat Girl wondered what to try
next. Then, in spite of Nox's warning bellow, she began to shove and
push the wet planks with her shoulder. But that did no good either,
so she felt in her pocket for something to use as a wedge. Almost at
once her fingers closed on the silver hammer they had ploughed up in
Keretaria. While the hammer would not do for a wedge, it would at
least save her knuckles, so, lifting it high above her head, Handy
Mandy brought it down with a resounding whack. A shower of silver
sparks followed the hammer blow, and Nox, peering through the waterfall
saw a gnarled and crooked elf with a purple beard dancing madly round
the startled girl.

    "_I am the elf of the hammer, who
    Must do whatever you ask me to_,"

sang the elf between his high leaps and prances.

"Then open this door," directed Handy, spinning round in a circle
herself to get a good look at the little fellow. "My--y, how funny Oz
is! Magic horns, Topsies, Hook Noses and now _you_! Don't tell me a
little body like you can really open this great heavy door?"

    "_Pick up the hammer and doubt no more--
    Himself, the elf, will now open the door._"

In a daze Handy Mandy picked up the hammer and put it back in her
pocket, and Nox, thunderstruck by the whole proceeding thrust his head
through the waterfall just in time to see the knobby little gnome push
the door open with one thump of his brown fist. Quick as a flash Handy
was on the other side.

"Come on! Come on!" she called hoarsely to Nox. "Can't you see it's
closing? Oh mercy--ercy, do you want to leave me here all alone?"

"Yes!" snorted Nox in an exasperated voice, but jumping as he snorted.
"I'd like nothing better." As he came to 'better,' he landed on the
other side of the waterfall and skidded through the open door into the
mountain. He had just time to tuck in his tail, when the door with an
ominous creak slammed shut.

"_Now_, see what you've done!" gasped Nox, eyeing the gloomy interior
with distaste and foreboding. "I--thought--you--were going to be a help
to me and all--puff--splutter--you do is get me into trouble! What sort
of place is this anyway?"

"A c-c-ave," quavered Handy, wrapping all her arms tightly round
herself. "My--y, it's so high--igh, I can hardly see the top. Where's
that elf?"

"Gone!" sighed the Ox, taking a cautious step forward. "But I expect
he'll come back at the first tap of that hammer. All very puzzling if
you ask me."

"Well, shall I call him back?" asked Handy uneasily. "It's kinda lonely
in here and maybe Himself could tell us where we are."

"Better wait till we need him," advised the Ox. "After all, we know we
are in a cave, seems to be of silver rock, too. Just cast your eye at
those stalactites, m'lass."

"So that's what you call 'em," the Goat Girl glanced curiously up at
the silver icicles hanging in jagged points from the ceiling. "We have
caves on Mt. Mern, but nothing like this." She looked apprehensively
round the silent cavern, from which a perfect honeycomb of passageways
branched off in all directions. "A fine place to get lost, I'd call
it," she shivered, moving as close as she could to her companion. "What
makes this lavender light? I see no lamps."

"Jewels!" confided the Ox in a hushed voice. "See, there are hundreds
of amethysts embedded in those rocks, each glowing like--"

"An eye!" finished Handy nervously. "And all watching us, I dare say.
My--y, do you suppose anyone lives here? But they must--" Unwinding her
arms, Handy suddenly began snapping all thirty-five of her fingers.
"Nox, Nox!" she cried excitedly. "I've just thought of something!"

"Can't you think without shouting?" asked the Ox, flashing his eyes
suspiciously from left to right.

"No," said Handy triumphantly, "for this is something to shout about.
Look, old Toggins, if this is a silver cave, why wouldn't a Silver
Mountain be on top? All we have to do is open that door and start
climbing again."

"As I remember there was a sheer precipice back of the waterfall, how
could we climb that? No, no! The best thing for us to do is to travel
down one of the passageways and hope it will bring us out on the side
of the mountain itself."

"Yes, but which one?" demanded the Goat Girl. "There are about a
hundred it seems to me."

"Let's try that first one to the right," proposed the Ox judiciously.
Their voices echoed and reverberated back and forth so uncannily in the
big hollow cavern that almost without realizing it they began to talk
in whispers and tread as softly as thieves in the night. Half-way to
their destination they stopped, rigid with horror and consternation.
Thumping footsteps were coming toward them from the labyrinth on the
left.

"Someone does live here, after all," said the Goat Girl. "Someone who
weighs a ton. Hark to that!"

"Watch yourself!" warned Nox, planting all four feet and making ready
to charge if the cave dweller proved unfriendly.

"Oh, my aunt--a GIANT!" With a shrill scream Handy flung all her arms
round Nox's neck and buried her face in his shoulder. Poor Nox, nearly
strangled by the Goat Girl's embrace could neither move nor speak and
could scarcely breathe. With rolling eyes and quaking legs he watched
the monster approach. The Giant's body, almost ten times the size of a
grizzly bear, was encased in a tight purple uniform with bells instead
of buttons that jingled whenever he moved. He wore a huge silver
helmet, and his neck, almost a foot long, kept darting up and down as
he shot his head in this direction and that.

"Ho! THERE you are!" he roared, suddenly catching sight of the two
travellers trembling together in the center of the cavern. "How
dare you enter the cave of the King of the Silver Mountain without
invitation or permission?"

"Then this really IS the Silver Mountain!" marveled Handy, twisting her
apron nervously in her wooden fingers.

"Of course!" yelled the giant, thumping the floor with an enormous
silver club. "And I, Snorpus the Mighty, am Keeper of the Hidden
Door. I am OUTKEEPER for this whole mountain," he boasted truculently
expanding his chest and looking complacently down at the two midgets at
his feet. But something in his manner began to reassure the Goat Girl.

"I'll bet he's dumb as he's big," she confided hurriedly to Nox. Then
raising her voice and all of her arms, she called up loudly, "Then you
must indeed be strong and sturdy!"

"Oh, I AM!" bawled the Giant, twirling his silver moustache and fixing
Handy for a moment with his glittering eye. "Snorpus the Door Keeper
is strong as an OX!" There was something very peculiar about the eye
of the Giant. It seemed to revolve on a moving belt, peering out as it
passed through the four wide open lids set at intervals round the top
of his head, so that half the time he was looking the other way.

"Did you ever see an ox?" inquired Handy politely as the eye of Snorpus
again flashed by.

"No, but I'd like to," admitted the Giant, shooting his head out to the
side.

"Well, this is an ox," cried Handy, tapping the anxious beast at her
side with a rubber hand. "And if you are strong as an ox you are strong
as Nox and nothing much can stop you."

"How strong is he?" asked Snorpus, lowering himself stiffly to one knee
in order to get a look at what he had first supposed to be a small and
insignificant animal.

"So strong," explained the Goat Girl impressively, as she pointed with
all hands to the side of the cave, "that if he so much as bumped into
that wall yonder, this whole cavern would collapse like a pack of
cards."

"Then I hope he'll be very careful," faltered Snorpus, taking out a
huge silk handkerchief to mop his forehead. "It would annoy the King
frightfully if you destroyed his cavern, and I might even lose my head
and position here."

"Oh, he'll be careful," promised Handy Mandy generously. "He, being an
ox, and you being strong as an ox, makes us all friends, doesn't it?"

"I--I suppose so," muttered Snorpus, tapping his knee uncertainly with
his club. "But just the same, I am still the outkeeper and must do my
duty at all hazards. AT ALL HAZARDS!" he shouted, standing up to give
himself courage and puffing out his cheeks like a porpoise.

"But you have done your duty," bellowed Nox in a voice even louder than
the door keeper's. "If we were outside the mountain it would be your
plain duty to keep us there, but since we are already inside, you have
nothing more to do with us. Isn't that so?" Lowering his head, Nox made
a little lunge at the Giant's shins. And backing away, Snorpus gave the
pair several long puzzled looks.

"Well, then," he decided finally, "if I have nothing more to do with
you, you had best come along to the King."

"That is exactly what we wish to do," answered the Goat Girl promptly.

"My, you _are_ brave, aren't you?" The Giant's eye flashed for a moment
in real admiration upon Handy Mandy, then, picking up his club, he
began clumping away to the left.

"Now I wonder what he meant by that?" puffed Nox, for they both had to
run to even keep the Giant in sight.

"I don't know," gasped Handy, "but never mind what he means. We still
have your golden horn and the silver hammer and will manage somehow.
But imagine getting right inside the Silver Mountain and never knowing
it!"

"Yes, and we may go out the same way," predicted the Royal Ox gloomily,
following the Giant down the wide glittering corridor. "I never did
like these tunnely places or people."




CHAPTER 10

The King of the Silver Mountain


"I hear water," worried Handy as Snorpus suddenly vanished round a bend
in the corridor. "Oh, dear--ear, I do hope we won't have to go swimming
again."

"Then mind your manners!" warned the Royal Ox, giving his horns a
little shake. "Remember it is safer to keep on the right side of Kings
and Giants, and if we are to learn anything about Kerry we must be
extremely patient and polite."

A loud gasp interrupted Nox's speech, for Handy Mandy, well in the
lead, had also stepped round the bend. Hastening to catch up with her,
the Ox, too, gave an involuntary exclamation of wonder and astonishment.

The silver corridor had brought them into a second cavern, smaller than
the entrance cave, but so light and lacy, so bright and beautiful, for
once Handy Mandy stood perfectly speechless. The silver sides of the
dome-shaped grotto had been carved to show all the historical figures
and characters of ancient Oz. Wizards, giants, knights, witches,
huntsmen, robbers, kings, queens and their patient subjects marched in
a splendid procession round the walls. Sparkling lavender sand covered
the floor and a lake of shimmering quicksilver took up the entire
center, lapping the shore with its swift soundless waves. On a small
island of purest amethyst in the middle of this lake the King of the
Silver Mountain reclined at ease. His back was toward the newcomers and
he seemed lost in some deep and entirely satisfactory contemplation.

"A king, if I ever saw one," breathed Nox moistly in Handy's ear.
With a wordless nod the Goat Girl agreed, for in this long, indolent
yet majestic figure Handy felt she was seeing royalty for the first
time. The unusual height of the silver monarch was at once apparent
and his tight-fitting suit of deepest purple, without ornament save for
his jeweled belt and sword, set off his handsome figure to the best
advantage. His hair, of an astonishing thickness, was as silver as his
cavern. When he turned his head, as he presently did at a little cough
from Snorpus, Handy saw that his eyes were of a clear and piercing
violet. Quietly and without hurry, the Silver King rose and, picking
up his filigreed crown, set it firmly on his head. Then, retrieving a
long-stemmed pipe from a crevice in the rock, he established himself in
a seat carved from the amethyst and looked inquiringly across at his
visitors.

"So," he whistled, his eyes sparkling with lively interest as they
rested for a long moment on the Goat Girl. "Two very, VERY clever
travellers."

"Why do you say that?" blurted out Handy, and was instantly overcome at
her own boldness in speaking to so grand a person.

"The fact that you are here in this cavern proves you are clever,"
answered the King, leaning over to fill his pipe in the quicksilver
lake. "You have opened the door in the mountain that does not open;
passed the impassable guardian and keeper of that door--SNORPUS!!" The
King's pleasant voice changed so quick and cruelly, Handy almost lost
her balance. "What have you to say for yourself, you lazy Bozwokel?"
roared His Majesty, his eyes flashing flinty sparks of purple. "I'll
have you potted for this, potted and reduced to a smithering smith, do
you hear?"

Poor Snorpus, who could not have helped hearing the King's booming
sentence, dropped to his knees and began pleading, explaining and
blubbering all in the same breath. Even Nox, startled as he was, tried
to put in a good word for him. But the muttering monarch, paying no
attention to any of them, had lifted his silver pipe to his lips and an
enormous bubble was rising from the bowl. Handy, with chattering teeth,
watched the bubble grow larger and larger, float off the pipe and hover
over the unlucky head of the Giant. As Snorpus tried in vain to dodge,
the bubble broke with the sound like a doomsday bell, enveloping him
in a cloudy mist. When it cleared away, the Giant was indeed reduced,
coming now scarcely to Handy's shoulder.

"How about it, shall we run?" whispered the Goat Girl as the King began
to blow another bubble. "Boy, do I feel a draft!"

"But he's not mad at us!" answered the Ox, ducking nervously as the
second bubble soared over their heads. "Wait! Be patient, remember
the little King." As Nox finished speaking the bubble sailed off
and away down one of the silver corridors leading away from the
royal cavern. Presently they heard a bell ringing in the distance
as the bubble broke, and before you could say Pop Robinson seventy
silver-jacketed little bell boys came trotting into the cave.

"Take this poor failure to Nifflepok and see that he is potted,"
directed the King sternly, setting down his bubble pipe. "Have Timano
guard the mountain door and see that I am not disturbed. Important
matters have come up this morning, important matters!"

"Yes! Yes! Your Highness! It shall be done, Your Excellency!" mumbled
the bell boys, pushing poor Snorpus ahead of them.

"Watch yourselves! Watch yourselves!" warned the little Giant as he was
rudely hustled out of the royal presence.

"Now," smiled the Silver King, positively beaming upon his visitors,
"now we can proceed with our conversation. Sorry to trouble you with
this small matter, but discipline, as the old army officers will tell
you, discipline must be maintained."

"Humph!" sniffed Handy Mandy under her breath, looking with dislike
and disillusion at the royal figure on the rocks. "The Giant was right,
you're a fellow who'll bear watching." Fortunately her words did not
carry, and lazily glancing at them through his long purple lashes the
Silver King continued his speech.

"Since you have so easily entered my mountain," he observed blandly,
"I assume you have some powerful magic treasure or appliance in your
possession. Am I right?" At the sudden forward lurch of the Royal Ox
and Handy Mandy's surprised expression, the King gave a satisfied
little nod. "Fine!" he chuckled, rubbing his hands together briskly.
"And now, let us waste no more time. WHO sent you? WHAT have you to
offer? As you doubtless know, the Wizard of Wutz pays well for magic
treasures and formulas."

"Wizard!" choked Handy Mandy, carelessly clapping her iron hand to her
forehead and knocking herself over backward. "Wizard!" she repeated,
dazedly picking herself up. "But I thought you were a King?"

"I am both!" stated the owner of the cavern proudly. "I am King of the
Silver Mountain and also the Wizard of Wutz, second in importance only
to Glinda and the Wizard of Oz. And, ha! ha! it won't be long before I
am the ONLY wizard, the sole, supreme and only Wizard of Oz! Not long!
Not long!" Again the Silver King rubbed his hands exultantly together.
"I have my secret agents in every Kingdom in this country and even in
the Emerald City of Oz," he told them impressively. "I already have the
Record Book of Glinda, the Good Sorceress, and many more of the magic
treasures of Oz, and soon I will have them all--ALL! My agents are
clever and I have trained them well."

"But I thought magic was against the law!" cried Nox with an outraged
snort. "I understood no one was allowed to practice magic but Ozma,
Glinda and the Wizard of Oz!"

"Then why are you here?" demanded Wutz sternly. "YOU have been
practicing magic or you could not have entered this mountain. Come,
now, let us stop all this nonsense and get down to silver tacks and
business. What have you to offer? Who sent you--Three, Six, Nine, Five
or Eleven?"

As you can imagine, this was perfect jargon to Nox and the Goat Girl,
but Handy Mandy, convinced by this time that the Silver King was both
sly and dangerous, resolved to fall in with his little supposition and
see what would come of it.

"Nine sent us," she answered boldly, while Nox looked across at her in
perfect stupefaction.

"You don't say! I rather thought you came from the Munchkin Country,"
mused the Wizard. "Something in the way the Ox talked, though you,
yourself, are not a native Ozian?"

"No!" Handy said noncommittally, and rather pleased she had chosen
Nine, since this number had something to do with the Munchkins.

"Did Nine say anything about the silver hammer?" asked the King,
twinkling his eyes at the Goat Girl.

"He told us nothing," stated Handy quite truthfully, this time.

"That's Nine for you," fumed the King discontentedly. "He's the slowest
and most unsatisfactory agent I have. Two years searching for that
hammer and no report yet. I've a good notion to kick him out and put
little King Kerry back on the throne. A bargain's a bargain and I've
kept my part. Besides, I've got to have that hammer before I can make
myself supreme ruler in Oz. Why, it's the second most important magic
in the four Kingdoms!" At this surprising statement Handy pricked up
her ears.

"What did you say about Kerry?" panted Nox, almost stepping into the
quicksilver lake at mention of the little King.

"Nothing. I was talking about Nine," scowled the Wizard. "If that
fellow does not show some action soon, I'll--I'll--" The King clenched
his fists and looked so terribly angry that Handy was afraid he was
going to blow bubbles again. But instead he glared across the lake and
demanded impatiently, "Well, if you didn't bring the silver hammer,
what did you bring?"

"A magic flower," explained the Goat Girl hurriedly, and before Nox
could give away the fact that they did have the silver hammer. She
could guess from the expression in his eye that he was about to offer
the hammer in exchange for Kerry.

"A flower!" bawled Wutz, his face turning from red to purple. "My
caves are full of flowers, frosted silver lilies, long-stemmed sterling
roses, daisies and violets with jeweled centers. I can grow any kind of
flower I wish. How dare you take up my time with a flower! PAH! Go back
and tell Nine he had better look out--he's flirting with dismissal and
destruction."

"But this flower saves you from injury when you fall," stammered Handy,
heartily wishing she had never got herself into such a controversy.

"Fall!" sneered the Silver King, simply bounding off his throne. "I
NEVER fall!" and had hardly finished speaking before he caught his toe
on a jutting amethyst and pitched headlong to the rocks. Horrified, and
without waiting for the irate monarch to regain his feet, Handy and
Nox began to run toward one of the outgoing corridors, the Goat Girl
colliding as she ran with a plump little dignitary in a jeweled robe
and high hat.

"Your Highness! Your Highness!" puffed the little fat man, stopping
long enough to glare at Handy Mandy. "At last our efforts are to be
crowned with success! Five has but this moment arrived with--with--"

"With what?" demanded the King, springing lightly as a cat to his feet.
"With a jug," exulted the little fat man, tossing his high hat into
the air. "With a jug that was Rug and the magic picture of Queen Ozma
herself."

"Ah, SPLENDID!" beamed the monarch, who could turn his smiles and
rages on and off like electric lights. "That will be a lesson to those
Emerald City-ites!" Then suddenly remembering Handy and Nox and his
undignified fall, he shouted shrilly:

"Stop those imposters! Stop them, Nifflepok, and lock them up in the
prison pits till I have time to demolish them. Hah! We'll pot the Ox's
tongue, make soup of his tail, saddles and boots of his hide and use
his head for a hat rack. As for that seven-armed monstrosity, she shall
work in the polishing caves for the rest of her stupid life."

"I'll polish your nose first!" promised Handy, shaking all her fists at
the King.

"Better come quiet," warned Nifflepok, looking so worried Handy felt a
little sorry for him. "Wutz'll blow bubbles if you make him too mad,
and that'll be much worse than being locked up, you know."

"Oh, let's go with the Little High-Hat," groaned Nox, blinking his eyes
at Handy to remind her they still had his horns and the silver hammer.
"For my part, I'd like a little peace and quiet."

"Take 'em away! Take 'em away!" ordered the King, stamping up and down
his rocky island. "Send in Five! Send in Five at once!"

"Come along, then," said Nifflepok, being careful to keep out of the
way of Nox's horns. "Come, give me your hand, maiden. Not that one! Not
THAT one!" he howled dismally as the Goat Girl clasped his outstretched
fingers in her iron hand. "Let go! Let go!"

"Let's go! Let's go!" chuckled Handy Mandy mischievously. And squealing
with pain the little Minister hurried them down a long dim passageway.




CHAPTER 11

Down to the Prisoners' Pit!


"Oh! Oh! Give me another hand and I'll do my best to help you,"
sputtered Nifflepok, as Handy Mandy ruthlessly continued to squeeze his
fingers.

"We'll help ourselves, thank you," retorted the Goat Girl tartly.
Then relenting a little, she relaxed her hold, for she could not help
pitying Nifflepok and all the subjects of this cruel King. "Where are
these prison pits?" she asked impatiently, for she was anxious to be
alone with Nox. "If you are going to lock us up, do hurry along with
it."

"Yes, yes, absolutely yes!" moaned Nifflepok, glancing nervously
over his shoulder to be sure the white Ox was not going to tread on
his heels. "You'll be there in no time, no time at all," he assured
them earnestly. "Step over here, please." Moving a sliding door in
the wall of the corridor, the King's assistant waved them toward a
smooth wheelless silver carriage. It looked to Handy a lot like an
old-fashioned sleigh, and as there were seats in front and a space in
back large enough for the Ox, she let go Nifflepok's hand and quite
willingly climbed aboard. Nox, grunting a little, stepped over the side
and settled himself behind her.

"Well, goodbye," sniffed Nifflepok, rubbing his bruised fingers
tenderly. "You'll find everything you need below, not that you'll
be needing anything," he added mournfully as he pulled out a silver
switch. "Goodbye, I'm sorry for you!" he shouted as the car with a
lurch that almost loosened Handy's teeth shot down a sliding runway to
the deep pits of darkness below.

Now, you and I, who are used to scenic railways and have enjoyed the
thrills of chute the chutes for years, would have been less startled
by the wild dizzy leaps, the swoops, curves and climbs, and the
sickening drops of the Silver King's chariot. But neither the Goat Girl
nor the Royal Ox had ever heard of a scenic railway, much less ridden
in one, and the underground car of the Silver Monarch was more like
a chute the chutes than anything else. Sometimes the two travellers
were in complete darkness, at other times they whirled by the narrow,
well-lighted ledges of a queer cave city, where the subjects of the
Mountain King lived in cell-like apertures in the silver rock like the
cliff dwellers of old. Then without warning the car would plunge to
the work caverns below, past the gloomy shafts of the silver mines, or
dart up to the living quarters and grottos of the King himself, caves
so lavishly furnished and glowing with jewels, Handy let out little
shrieks of astonishment. In the King's subterranean gardens, silver
swallows bathed in the silver fountains, silver maples rustled their
lacy branches in the lavender-scented breezes, silver-petalled flowers
with jeweled centers grew as riotously as daisies and buttercups in the
upstairs world.

The mountaineers themselves, working listless with pick and shovel in
the mines, or walking soberly along the ledges beside their little
cliff dwellings, seemed undersized and unhappy to the Goat Girl. Not
that she caught more than a flying glimpse of them as the silver car
tore by. In fact, she was so frantically busy holding on to the front
rail of the car with all her various hands and catching her breath
after each dizzy swoop, that her mind was in a perfect whirl. The
groans and snorts of Nox were far from reassuring, but afraid to look
back lest she herself be flung out, Handy clung desperately to the rail
wondering when the wild ride would end and where under the mountain
the silver car was taking them. The last words of Nifflepok rang
unpleasantly in her ears and as they raced by a cave marked "Potters
Den" the Goat Girl positively shuddered. Here, set out in vast silver
pots and buried to their chins in the silver earth, were scores of the
King's pale-faced prisoners. A grim-looking gardener was watering them
from a milk can, and from the hungry way they lapped up the few drops
that fell to them, Handy concluded that this was probably their only
food.

"First I shot over a mountain, and now I'm shooting through one!"
moaned the distracted Goat Girl, trying to collect her spinning
thoughts and faculties. "Oh, my--y, we're going to pot for sure. Oh,
this time we are really done for!"

Then all at once Handy's good common sense began to assert itself. And
as their strange chariot with a sudden increase of speed and power
again dashed down into the darkness, she snatched the precious blue
flower from her pocket and at the exact moment the silver car turned
over and flung them into space, Handy began pulling the petals from the
flower and letting them drift down ahead of her own rapidly falling
body. It was just light enough for her to see Nox, with bristling
horns and quivering nostrils, fall past, when she herself started to
turn so many and such dizzy somersaults she lost all count of time and
distance.




CHAPTER 12

Prisoners of the Wizard


What seemed to be hours later, though in reality it was only a few
moments, the two luckless prisoners found themselves side by side on a
heap of soft blue flower petals. They were in a small circular pit with
one amethyst burning dimly in the grating that covered the top. The
Goat Girl had no recollection of her final landing and gazing up at the
grilled ceiling wondered dully how they had come through without being
cut to pieces.

"It tilted," wheezed the Royal Ox, answering the unspoken question in
Handy's eyes, "just tilted and slid us down. A fortunate thing you
kept that magic flower, m'lass. Ha--rumph!" Weakly and still trembling
in every limb, Nox tried to rise, but his legs gave way beneath him
and for a good fifteen minutes he and the Goat Girl rested on the
flower petals saying never a word. The tapping of footsteps in the
corridor brought Handy quickly to her feet and as Nox managed to heave
himself upright, the blue petals vanished, leaving only a tiny flower
on the floor. Handy had just time to stuff it into her pocket when
an invisible door in the side of the pit opened and twelve depressed
workmen in silver cloth caps and overalls stepped inside. They
carried brooms, mops and dust pans and stood staring in dismay at the
seven-armed Goat Girl and angry-looking Ox.

"We--we were sent to brush up!" stuttered the first workman, touching
his cap uneasily. "But--there--seems--"

"To be nothing to brush!" finished Handy sarcastically. "Sorry to
disappoint you. Now get OUT!" ordered the Goat Girl furiously, and
seizing buckets, brooms and mops from their nerveless fingers, Handy
pummeled them left and right with her seven hands.

"Get out and don't come back till Christmas," she panted, as the
workmen, tumbling over one another, clawed open the door and banged it
to behind them. The knob was on the other side of the pit and not even
the edges of the door were now visible.

"What a place!" groaned Handy Mandy, leaning dejectedly against the
side of their prison. "What a King! And he looked so nice!" grieved the
Goat Girl, sliding down to a sitting position and holding her head in
all of her hands.

"Never mind," said the Ox, settling on the floor beside her. "He hasn't
gotten the best of us yet. It was pretty clever of you to remember that
flower, but what I can't understand, is why you did not tell him at
once that we _did_ have this silver hammer he is so anxious to possess?
Then we could have traded the hammer for the release of Kerry."

"I don't trust him," answered the Goat Girl somberly. "Why I wouldn't
trust that Wizard as far as a goat can butt. Didn't you hear him say
the hammer was the second most important magic in Oz? Didn't you hear
him say he was stealing and planning to steal the best magic from all
the four Kingdoms to make himself supreme ruler of Oz? Well, now that
Five has brought him this jug-a-rug or whatever it is and Ozma's own
magic picture he's probably well on the way to realizing his ambitions.
But he's not going to get our silver hammer. I found it, and I'm going
to keep it, for it's far safer with me than with him. Do you suppose
we're going to help an old Bozzywog like that? What good would it do
to put Kerry back on his throne if Wutz is to be Ruler of Oz? He'd
probably pot all the Kings and keep everything for himself."

"Very probably," agreed Nox, wagging his head mournfully. "But what
are we to do? Are we an army to fight a mountain full of silver moles
and minions, are we magicians to risk our necks with this wizard?
Besides," Nox's face grew thin and anxious, "if Wutz has treated Kerry
the way he has treated us, the boy needs us right now and this very
minute."

"But didn't you hear him say he'd put Kerry back on the throne if Nine
did not soon find the hammer?" put in Handy patiently. "That proves the
little King is still here, and safe. Of course we must find him and get
him out of this miserable mountain, but we're not going to give Wutz
our hammer or any help at all, and he can put that in his silver pipe
and blow bubbles till he bursts," said Handy vindictively. "Now the
thing to do is to rest and eat, and then set ourselves to find the way
out of this pit and this mountain. Wutz and Nifflepok think we're all
swept away by this time. Besides, they'll be too busy talking with Five
to bother us. So first to eat and then to think!" proposed Handy in a
businesslike manner.

"Perhaps you're right," sighed the Ox, "but I'll not have an easy
moment till we're out of this magic mountain. That ride!" Nox lashed
his tail and rolled his eyes at the mere thought of their dash down the
underground railway. "Did you ever experience anything like it in your
life?"

"Well," grinned Handy, "it's one way of seeing the country, I suppose.
But let's not look back, old Toggins, let's look ahead. Remember we
still have the Dwarf of the Hammer on our side and when we are ready to
leave he'll surely show us the way."

"Not before I put a few gores in that Wizard's pants and plans,"
rumbled Nox belligerently. "I'll teach him to take liberties with the
Royal Ox of Keretaria."

"Hi--yigh! That's the old Oz spirit!" cheered Handy, reaching out
to touch his golden horn. "Horn, dear, just serve two dinners, and
no fooling." Unscrewing Nox's horn of plenty as she spoke, the Goat
Girl held it quietly in her wooden hand. And there was certainly no
fooling about the two splendid dinners the horn delivered in answer
to Handy's wish. Never had she eaten a more appetizing repast and half
of the prison pit was taken up by the fresh hay, fruit and grains
brought to satisfy the hunger of the Royal Ox. So, forgetting for a
time their awful danger and their disagreeable imprisonment, the two
adventurers refreshed themselves, and after the dishes and containers
had disappeared, settled down to evolve some plan to outwit the Wizard
of Wutz.




CHAPTER 13

In the Emerald City of Oz


Ten days before the Goat Girl left Mt. Mern, a weary and footsore
pilgrim arrived in the Emerald City. At least, he gave that impression
to all who saw him shuffling with his long staff and beggar's cup along
the shining streets of the capital. The man's head was clean shaven
and his small cap, coarse belted robe and sandals marked him as a monk
of some old and ancient order. He nodded gently to each person he
passed, and seemed, in spite of his many years and wrinkles, innocent
and harmless as a child. The splendor and magnificence of the capital
astonished and bewildered the old gentleman and in a sort of stupefied
disbelief he stared at the emerald studded streets and houses, and
gazed up at the lofty peaks and spires of the royal palace. And this
was not strange, for of all the fairy cities out of the world, the
Emerald City of Oz is the most dazzling and beautiful. But its citizens
are kindly and simple, for all that, and many stopped to drop emeralds
in the pilgrim's cup and ask him if there was anything else that he
needed. To all he mumbled in a strange and indistinguishable tongue and
seeing that he was bound for the palace, and sure that Ozma herself
would know best how to deal with him, the Emerald City-ites let him go
his way unmolested.

The afternoon was warm and pleasant, and Ozma and some of her favorites
were having a lazy game of croquet in the royal garden. The click of
the gold mallets as they tapped the gold balls presently attracted the
attention of the old wayfarer, who paused to peer curiously over the
hedge. The simple summer dresses of the girls in the garden seemed out
of all keeping with their majestic surroundings. Except for Ozma's
frock, which was longer, the emerald crown on her dark curls, and the
golden circlets worn by her three companions, they might have been any
four little girls playing croquet in a garden. But all around were the
unmistakable signs of rank and royalty. At ease under a lime tree stood
a tall soldier with green whiskers leaning on his gun. Three footmen
in satin uniforms stood stiffly beside an emerald topped tea table,
ready at a moment's notice to serve Ozade and frosted cake. On a gold
bench nearby, a straw stuffed scarecrow was quietly reading the paper,
and walking arm in arm down a little path talking composedly together
were an energetic little man with a bald head and a curious fellow who
seemed to be constructed entirely of copper. To all who are familiar
with the quaint and merry folk at Ozma's court, there would be nothing
odd about a live scarecrow or a mechanical man, and most of us would
have recognized Ozma's companions at once as Dorothy, Betsy and Trot,
three mortal girls who long ago came to live in the royal palace.

It was Dorothy who had discovered the Scarecrow on her first visit
to Oz, lifting him down from his pole and traveling in his gay and
carefree company all the way to the Emerald City. In those days the
Wizard of Oz had been ruler of the country, he himself having flown
in a balloon from Omaha. Astonished by the circus tricks of this
little fellow, the Ozians believing him to be a real wizard, made him
their sovereign, and under his wise rule and direction, built the now
famous City of Emeralds. The sight of Dorothy had made the humbug
wizard homesick, and after presenting the Scarecrow with a fine set of
brains, he flew off to America in a balloon of his own construction,
leaving the straw man to rule in his place. Afterward, when Ozma was
disenchanted and proved to be the rightful ruler of Oz, the Scarecrow
had cheerfully resigned. But he still spends most of his time in the
palace and is one of Ozma's most trusted friends and counselors. Later
the Wizard himself returned to Oz and this time took up the study of
magic with such zeal and earnestness he was soon famous from one end
of the country to the other. This made him exceedingly valuable to the
young fairy ruler, and he, like the Scarecrow, is an old and honored
member of Ozma's cabinet.

It was the Wizard who was now talking so earnestly to Tik Tok. The
Metal Man was another of Dorothy's discoveries. She met Tik Tok
on her second visit to Oz and brought him to the Emerald City for
safe keeping. Tik Tok, made by the firm of Smith and Tinker, is a
completely mechanical man and a loyal and dependable citizen when he is
properly wound up and oiled. Betsy and Trot, like Dorothy, arrived more
or less by wind, wave and accident in the Land of Oz. They liked it so
well and proved so gay and amusing, Ozma begged them to stay with her
and Dorothy in the green castle and help rule the many merry Kingdoms
that make up her wonderful empire. This they were only too happy to do,
so here they are, Princesses in their own right and living in the most
gorgeous City out of the world.

Besides the celebrities in the garden, there are numerous other
important people at Ozma's court. For instance, there is Herby, the
Medicine Man, whose chest is really a medicine chest full of pills,
cures and ointments. Then there is Scraps, a lively girl made from a
patchwork quilt by a wizard's wife, and brought to life by the wizard;
and there's Pigasus, a flying pig. There's a doubtful dromedary, a
cowardly lion, a hungry tiger, and Dorothy's little dog Toto; a glass
cat belonging to Scraps, a wooden saw horse belonging to Ozma, an Iffin
whom Jack Pumpkinhead discovered near the Land of Barons, and a dozen
more unique and unusual characters.

The old pilgrim seemed to find the group in the garden surprising
enough, for he watched them closely and silently for almost ten
minutes, cupping his hand behind his ear in an endeavor to catch what
the Wizard was saying.

"It is just as I have told you," the little Wizard was remarking
earnestly to Tik Tok. "The great record book of Glinda has vanished
from her castle without trace or reason and even with my powerful
searchlight and looking glasses I have been unable to discover any
signs of it. Word of the theft came yesterday by pigeon post."

"Some-one has sto-len it for no good pur-pose," answered the Metal
Man solemnly. But the old man leaning over the hedge heard none of
this, for the two were conversing in low and guarded tones. So after a
long puzzled look at the Scarecrow the pilgrim took up his staff and
shuffled along the gold pebbled path to the palace itself. A pompous
footman in gold and green came to answer his timid knock at the door.

"What name, please, what business, and why in the wood does a fellow
like you come begging at the door of a castle?" inquired the footman in
a loud displeased voice.

"There, there, Puffup," admonished a rosy-cheeked maid in a ribboned
cap and apron, peering around the wide shoulders of the footman. "Don't
be so shouting proud. You've frightened the old gentleman half out of
his wits. Can't you see he is tired and hungry and probably in need of
a lunch?" At the little maid's kind speech, the pilgrim bowed at least
a dozen times, nodding his head energetically to show that she was
perfectly right in her conjecture. "Come along with you," urged Jellia
Jamb, giving him a friendly wink.

Edging nervously past the muttering footman, the old beggar followed
Jellia into the castle's spacious and splendid dining hall. "Wait right
here and I'll bring you some cake and apple sauce, an omelette and a
pot of tea," promised the obliging girl. "How will that be?" Jellia
Jamb, who was Ozma's own personal maid and a privileged character
around the castle, grinned cheerfully at her ancient visitor, and
though the old monk pretended not to understand a word that she said,
he nevertheless seated himself at the table and with round eyes watched
her skip through the swinging door into the pantry.

No sooner had Jellia disappeared, than the old rascal sprang nimbly to
his feet and began to peer eagerly all around him. Passing hurriedly
over a rich gold service on the sideboard, he pounced upon an earthen
jug on a crystal stand and tucking it under his robe, slipped silently
as a shadow out of the dining hall, up the green carpeted stairs and
straight into the private sitting room of Ozma of Oz. Once there, and
without losing a moment, he walked to the west wall, took down a large
gold framed picture, blew upon it with a small glass tube, till it
was no larger than a cake of chocolate--and thrust it into an inner
pocket. Then, holding his robe high above his skinny shins and with
the jug clasped tightly in his arms, he galloped down the stairs and
out an open window into the garden, reaching a large clump of snowball
bushes without encountering anyone. Hiding himself well in the bushes,
he tore off the monk's robe, turned it inside out, dragged a white wig
from his sock and presently emerged as dignified and plausible an old
grandmother as any one would wish to see. The other side of his monk's
robe was green and made up in a style much affected by old ladies in
the capital, so that now he attracted no attention whatever. The jug in
a large string bag dangled carelessly from his wrist, and smiling and
nodding amiably he hurried through the garden, passed rapidly down one
street and another, through the high city gates, on and on, till he was
far out in the country walking faster and faster and less like a monk
or an old lady at every step.




CHAPTER 14

The Robbery Is Discovered!


"Prunes and peppermints!" ejaculated the Scarecrow, springing up from
his bench as Jellia Jamb, with streaming eyes and cap ribbons, came
flying across the garden.

"Peanuts and pretzels!" Dorothy, about to hit the pole and win the
game, dropped her mallet at Jellia's fire siren screeches, while Ozma
and the others swung round in amazement as the little waiting maid,
sobbing and panting, rushed into their midst.

"Oh, that beggar! Oh, that pilgrim! That old Monk, or whatever he was!"
wailed Jellia, wiping her eyes on the corner of her apron. "He's gone
and stolen the jug, I mean Rug, and Oz knows what will become of us!"

"There, there, my girl. Stop crying! Begin at the beginning and tell us
just what happened," begged the Scarecrow, patting Jellia clumsily on
the shoulder.

"But this is serious, very serious," muttered the Wizard, who had at
once realized the importance of the little maid's news. "If Ruggedo is
released from that jug and enchantment, he'll be up to his old tricks
in no time and doing anything in his power to hurt and destroy us."

"But who could have known we turned Ruggedo into a jug, or where the
jug was kept? And why would anyone steal an old earthenware pitcher
when there are so many other rare and beautiful objects in the palace?"
Ozma, looking anxious and troubled, seated herself on the bench beside
the Scarecrow.

"The same person who knew the value of Glinda's record book and stole
that," answered the Wizard gloomily. "Dark forces are at work in Oz, my
dear, dark forces. Just how did this rascal look, Jellia?"

"Like an old monk with a beggar's cup," said the little maid with a
sorrowful sniff. "He seemed so poor and hungry I went off to get him
something to eat and no sooner was my back turned than he grabbed the
jug and ran off--though he shuffled slowly enough when he came into the
palace."

"Disguised, of course," observed the Scarecrow, raising one eyebrow,
"and no more a monk than I am. But what was he monkeying round here
for? And what could he want with that jug, even if he knew it was the
old Gnome King? Really, you know, you shouldn't let perfect strangers
into the palace, Jellia."

"Just what I was telling her," wheezed Puffup, breathlessly adding
himself to the group on the lawn, "and I hopes this will be a lesson to
you, Miss."

"If we just knew where the old villain came from," worried the Wizard,
tapping his fingers absently on Tik Tok's copper arm.

"Or where he was going," finished Dorothy, pushing back her crown.

"Why not look in the ma-gic pic-ture?" proposed the Machine Man calmly.
"The pic-ture would show us where he is now."

"Of course it would!" Ozma rewarded Tik Tok with a bright smile, and
jumping up, the little Fairy hurried across the garden and into the
palace with the others just a few steps behind her. But when they
reached the small sitting room where the magic picture was hung, of
course it was not there, and now in real distress and consternation
they all sat down to discuss the mysterious forces working against them.

"I thought Ruggedo was the only enemy I had left," sighed Ozma, leaning
wearily back in her satin tufted arm chair. "I thought when we turned
the Gnome King to a jug, all our troubles would be over."

"Who-ev-er stole the jug knows that Rug-ge-do was once the pow-er-ful
me-tal mon-arch who tried a-gain and a-gain to con-quer Oz," rasped Tik
Tok in his slow and precise fashion.

"Right!" agreed the Wizard, striding up and down with his hands clasped
behind his back. "And whoever stole that jug and the magic picture
plans to disenchant the Gnome King and learn from him the best way to
destroy us. But that will be pretty difficult," asserted the little
Wizard, thrusting out his chin. "That transformation was one of the
best you ever made, my dear Ozma, one of the best. It will take a
pretty smart wizard to turn that jug back to Rug again."

"Whoever stole the jug and Ozma's magic picture WAS pretty smart,"
Betsy Bobbin reminded him seriously. "And without the picture how're we
going to find out who it is? Can't you do something, Wiz dear, or do we
just have to sit around and wait to be conquered?"

"I shall go to my laboratory at once," decided the Wizard importantly,
"and there by some magic means I'll try to discover who is at the
bottom of all this wretched plotting and thievery. Lock up the magic
treasures in your safe, Ozma, especially the Gnome King's magic belt,
and have them guarded day and night." Briskly the little Wizard rushed
out of the room, returning in a moment to repeat gloomily, "DAY and
NIGHT!"

"And I'll go and drill the army," declared the Scarecrow, stepping
recklessly out an open French window and falling flat, but undaunted,
in a flower bed below.

"And I'd better call Tige and the Cowardly Lion," said Dorothy, who had
always found the lion a splendid fighter in spite of his cowardice, and
the Hungry Tiger, ready at the drop of a handkerchief to protect his
royal patrons with tooth and claw. "They can sit right here beside the
safe and I'd just like to see anyone get by them!"

"Maybe it will be someone they cannot see," shivered Betsy, peering out
into the darkening garden.

"Oh, my, isn't it too exciting!" Trot, bouncing up and down on a small
sofa, leaned over to touch Ozma on the knee. "It reminds me of the time
Ugu the Shoemaker stole all the magic treasures in Oz. Remember?"

Ozma, looking at the space where her magic picture had hung, nodded her
head sorrowfully, saddened and sobered by the thought that she still
had dangerous and unscrupulous enemies in Oz.




CHAPTER 15

The Pilgrim Returns to the Mountain


Travelling northward by foot and as quickly as he could, Number Five
had come to the Silver King's Mountain just a few moments after Nox
and Handy Mandy. Now, dressed in the silver armor and helmet worn by
all the Wizard's M-Men, he waited in great agitation for the wizard to
appear. Nifflepok had at once taken Five to the den where Wutz carried
on all his magic experiments and kept his valuable treasures, and quite
sure none of the other agents had been as successful as he, Five paced
impatiently up and down, fancying himself already co-ruler with the
wizard in Oz.

"So, there you are at last!" Entering from an invisible door in the
back of his work shop, Wutz stared coldly at Five. "Well, what trash is
that you have stolen?" was asked, finally. The wizard always pretended
the discoveries of his agents were of little use and importance. And
when Five, completely taken aback and crestfallen, began to explain the
wonderful properties of the magic picture and the fact that the old jug
had once been the powerful King of the Gnomes, the Silver Monarch cut
him short. "Yes, yes, but just see what Seven has brought," he told him
gloatingly. "Seven, by a trick known only to himself, has stolen and
transported to our mountain the great record book of Glinda the Good
Sorceress!" Following the direction of the King's imperious finger,
Five gazed jealously at a huge volume chained with golden chains to its
marble stand. "In that book," went on the wizard quickly, "everything
that ever happened in Oz is recorded, not only everything that has
happened, but everything that is happening. You can see the entries
appearing at this very minute on the open page."

"I see, I see!" Five scarcely glanced at the record book. "But this
magic picture shows you any person you desire to look at. With this
picture and the help of the powerful Gnome King, now disguised as a
jug, we can soon make ourselves rulers of Oz. All we need to do is
release Ruggedo from his enchantment. I have been told by people in the
Emerald City that Ruggedo is familiar with all the magic secrets of
Ozma and the Wizard of Oz, and is, besides, a skilful magician himself.
Once we have disenchanted him, everything will be easy."

"We? We?" sneered Wutz, who secretly agreed with Five, but would not
give him the satisfaction of knowing it. "Well, put the picture there
on that stand so I can examine it. Show us this silly ruler of Oz who
sets herself above all other rulers," he ordered sharply. "Where is
she now and what is she doing?" Then, though the wizard and Five and
Nifflepok, who had come noiselessly into the workshop, gazed into the
canvas till their eyes stung and watered, not a single figure appeared
to enlighten them. "HAH! A hoax!" raged the Silver King, rushing at
Five and shaking him till his armor rattled. "How dare you fool me in
this dangerous manner?"

"But it's not a hoax," screamed Five as soon as he could speak. "It
worked perfectly well in the castle."

"Perhaps it was hurt when you reduced it to carry it here," put in
Nifflepok nervously. He was always trying to keep peace between the
cruel King and his subjects. "Perhaps it only obeys the commands of
Ozma, its rightful owner. And remember, you still have the jug and
the magic record book. The record book might even explain about the
picture," he suggested hopefully. "I thought so, it says here: 'The
magic picture and Rug, the jug, have been stolen from the castle of
Ozma of Oz by an agent of the Silver King.'"

"There!" exclaimed Five, brushing himself off indignantly. "I told you
it was the one and only picture."

"Yes, but what good is it to me if it doesn't work?" scoffed the
wizard. "I'll not have you potted this time, Five, but next time don't
bring me damaged goods and old jugs, bring something of real value." As
Five, red faced and furious, jerked himself out of the King's presence,
Wutz turned joyfully to Nifflepok. "Getting on, old Tubbykins, we're
getting on! Without that magic picture Ozma will not be able to trace
her stolen property, and without the record book, Glinda will not
be able to help her. So who's to stop us from stealing everything?
Everything!" exulted Wutz, picking up the earthen jug and waving it
over his head.

"But do you think it wise to treat our agents so shabbily?" sighed
Nifflepok. "They might betray us, you know."

"Oh, no, they won't," sniffed the wizard, grinning broadly at his
anxious little assistant. "The way I treat them is perfectly all right,
keeps them on their toes, and with each trying to outdo the other we
get the best results."

"Well, I hope you're right," Nifflepok still looked unconvinced. "But I
cannot help thinking--"

"Out of your line, Niffy; just leave the thinking to me. Now fetch me
my magic blower, there's a good fellow, till I see what can be done
with this jug. It may take some time and doing to release this ugly
little gnome. By the way, did you pulverize those meddling Munchkins?"

"Oh, yes!" Nifflepok nodded his head with a little shudder of distaste.
"I shot them down into the prisoner's pit just as your Majesty
commanded."

"That's strange." The wizard in crossing the den to fetch a glass test
tube had paused for a moment beside the book of records. "It says
here, 'The Goat Girl from Mern and the Royal Ox are in the Silver
King's Mountain planning to release the little King of Keretaria.' So
that's what brought them here?" mused the wizard softly. "Now, then,
Nifflepok, something must have slipped up instead of down. If your
prisoners were powdered or pulverized, how could they be planning and
plotting?"

"They must have some powerful magic to help them," muttered Nifflepok,
"or how could they have survived that fall?"

"Better find out, my dear fellow. Go spy on those Munchkins, and
if their magic is important or worth while, come back and tell me.
And in the future be more careful how you carry out my orders and
instructions!" The wizard's voice was still low and pleasant, but his
eyes flashed so threateningly, Nifflepok rushed out of the royal work
den, flung himself in the silver car and went speeding down to the
prison pits at the bottom of the mountain.




CHAPTER 16

The Wizard's Bargain!


While Nifflepok had been interviewing Five, Handy and Nox had been
having a troublesome conference of their own. Each plan they devised
for finding the little King and escaping from the Silver King's
Mountain proved impractical. To summon the hammer elf to release them
from the prison pit would probably rouse the underground guards and
minions of the wizard, and give Wutz himself an opportunity to steal
the hammer. To tap the hammer lightly and ask the advice of Himself
had next seemed a good idea, but as Nox quickly pointed out, that, too,
was dangerous.

"In a wizard's den like this, anything can happen," groaned the Ox,
looking around with a gloomy eye. "How do we know we are not being
watched at this very moment? If you so much as show that hammer,
somebody may pounce in here and snatch it away, which will leave us
with nothing to protect ourselves with in a last emergency--except that
blue flower, my horns and your hands."

Handy did not like the sound of "last emergency," but even Handy
realized they would not escape from the mountain without some sort
of battle. To the free and sun-loving mountain girl every minute
underground was sheer torture. She longed for a breath of the pure
upper air, and the unreal light and pale faces of Wutz's underground
citizens and workers filled her with pity and loathing. "Of course, no
matter how long they leave us here, your horn of plenty will keep us
from starving, but if we don't soon find some way out, I believe I'll
explode!" she choked in a desperate voice.

"Let's look at the message in that silver ball again," suggested Nox
unexpectedly. "Are you sure you read it all, m'lass? There might have
been directions on the other side."

"I don't think so," said Handy, shaking her head. Then, because action
of any sort was a relief, she deftly twisted off Nox's left horn and
tilted the silver balls into one of her always handy palms. The first
ball when she opened it contained nothing further than the silver key.
In the center of the second lay the same folded paper, but this time
when Handy unfolded the paper there was a new message inside.

"Wait!" cautioned the little slip of paper in small blue letters. "Do
nothing until the wizard appears."

"Oh," breathed the Royal Ox, touching the paper gently with his nose.
"Someone is helping us."

"Then I'd better keep this silver ball in my pocket," decided the
Goat Girl, "where I can easily get it. In a tight corner I might not
have a chance to unscrew your horn. Dear--ear, how puzzling it all
grows! So we're to hear from the wizard again. Whist! What was that?"
As Handy, with her wooden hand, slipped the first ball back into the
horn, with her leather hand screwed the horn back on Nox's head and
with one of her best white hands stuffed the second ball and message
into her pocket, they heard agitated footsteps pattering along the
outside corridor. After a tense moment, however, they died away, and
exchanging a relieved glance, Nox and Handy settled down to wait for
the wizard.

The footsteps, as you have already guessed, belonged to Nifflepok.
Peering in at them through an invisible window, the King's messenger
had been just in time to see Handy shaking the silver balls from the
golden horn. Without waiting to see what use they would make of this
curious magic, Nifflepok rushed back to inform his master.

"They are wizards!" he panted, bursting unceremoniously into the Silver
King's den. "The magic is in the ox's horn. With my own eyes I saw the
seven-armed maiden shaking silver balls from his horn."

"What do _I_ care about silver balls?" snarled Wutz, who was in a
terrible temper. "If I had them here I'd bounce you over the head
with them." The den was full of sulphurous smoke, but the earthenware
jug still stood unchanged on the table before him. "The magic in the
Emerald City is still better than mine," hissed the Silver Monarch, his
voice quivering with anger and disappointment. "I've tried every single
formula in my book of incantations, every straight and crooked pass in
the magician's manual, every powder and potion on my shelves, and this
ugly jug is still a jug and nothing but a jug! What are we going to
do?" he yelled furiously. "Think of something, you noddle-headed pig! I
must have the help of this little Gnome King, but how'm I going to get
him out of the jug?"

"Perhaps, with a little more time," faltered Nifflepok, twisting his
high hat nervously in his hands.

"Time! TIME!" exploded the wizard. "When did time ever break an
enchantment?" Snatching up a pair of silver pliers he flung them
wrathfully at his assistant. Nifflepok, fortunately for his head,
caught the dangerous missile in his hat, and darting behind a tall
cabinet, looked pleadingly out at his unreasonable Master. "Wait!
Wait!" he begged earnestly as Wutz with a menacing frown took up his
silver bubble pipe. "I HAVE thought of something. Make these Munchkins
break the Gnome King's enchantment. They have passed all the hazards
of our mountain unharmed. Undoubtedly the girl is a sorceress and the
Ox a powerful magician in disguise. Let them do this trifling service
for your Majesty in return for the useless captive we are holding for
Number Nine."

"Hm--mmmm!" Deliberately the Silver Monarch put down his pipe. "That's
not a bad idea, Niffle, not a bad idea at all." Picking up the jug,
Wutz brushed rudely by his trembling little Minister and hurried out
of his workshop. A few minutes later, he stood bowing and smiling
before the two travelers in the prisoner's pit. But warned by the
message in the silver ball, his entrance through the invisible door
neither frightened nor impressed Handy Mandy or the Royal Ox.

"So here you are at last," exclaimed the Goat Girl, looking the Silver
Monarch sternly in the eye. "And about time, too. How dare you imprison
us in this miserable pit for no reason at all?"

"Oh, yes, there is a reason," stated Wutz a little surprised at Handy's
defiance. "You broke into my mountain without invitation or permission
and as you are nothing but a pair of trespassers, you certainly
deserve imprisonment and even destruction."

"Nonsense," snorted the Royal Ox, lurching forward heavily. "We came
here seeking a lost boy whom you are unlawfully holding captive. As
soon as you release the little King of Keretaria, we will take him and
leave this mountain!"

"And the sooner you tell us where he is, the better!" added Handy,
snapping her thirty-five fingers under the Silver King's nose.

"Ah, you think so?" sneered Wutz. "Well, nothing is ever given for
nothing in this mountain, but I may give you a chance to earn the boy's
release. Here in my hand is a jug, an ordinary enough looking jug. With
the magic you have in your possession, you must transform this jug to
its proper shape. If you succeed, you and the Ox and the Boy King of
Keretaria may leave my mountain unharmed. If you fail, ha ha!" The
heartless wizard threw back his head and laughed uproariously. "If you
fail, the walls of this pit will contract until you are--well, shall
we say--obliterated? To keep your part of the bargain and perform this
slight service I will give you _one half_ hour. Here is the jug, and in
case you fail, GOOD-BYE!"

"Good Gillikins!" whistled Nox, as the wizard strode through the
invisible door and left them alone. "What does that fool think we are,
wizards--magicians--necromancers?" Groaning and snorting, he began to
gallop round and round the hot little pit.

"Look out! Look out! You'll break the jug," warned Handy, snatching it
up in her arms. "And for goat's sake stop that galloping! I'm dizzy
enough as it is."

"But you heard what he said?" lowed the Ox, coming to a trembling stop
beside her. "What are we to do? We know nothing of magic or magic
transformations!" In their distress and excitement, they both forgot
there might be a message to help them in the silver ball, and Handy,
taking the jug in one of her white hands, surveyed it with horror and
curiosity.

"It's so old and ugly now," said the Goat Girl slowly, "I'll bet it
was something old and ugly to begin with. Didn't Nifflepok mention
something about a jug that was a rug? Maybe it's a rug, though more
likely a rogue. Say, I wonder if I broke the jug whether that would not
break the enchantment?"

"Oh, no, no, no! Don't do that!" begged Nox, rolling his eyes in
terror. "If you break the jug, the wizard will be furious, and how do
you know what will break the spell? Here, let me look at it." Passing
the jug rapidly from one hand to another, Handy started to place it
on the floor under Nox's nose with her seventh and last hand, when a
sudden and unexpected scream from the interior, made her drop it with a
loud crash to the silver stones.

"Ouch! Oh, stop! How dare you bang me around in this hateful manner?"
Up from the flying fragments of earthenware at Handy's feet sprang a
fierce little gnome with a long ragged beard, shaking his fists and
howling like a child.

"Oh, my--y! I've actually done it!" quavered the Goat Girl, falling
over against Nox. "Look! Look! Didn't I tell you it would be old and
ugly?" The gnome, at Handy's words suddenly stopped howling.

"Where am I? Where am I? WHO am I?" he mumbled in a frightened voice.

"Well, I don't know who you are, but I'm afraid you're in a pretty
bad place," said Handy, straightening up to have a better look at her
handiwork. "You're in the underground caverns of the King of the Silver
Mountain, if you must know."

"Caverns!" beamed the gnome, his face breaking into a wide smile.
"What's the matter with caverns? I LOVE caverns, why I used to live in
one myself. And who did you say I was?"

"We don't know who you are," explained Nox, in a cautious voice. "A
moment ago and before Handy took you in hand, you were nothing but a
jug."

"A jug?" pondered the gnome pulling his beard thoughtfully. "You mean
to say I was a JUG?"

"Maybe 'Was-a-jug's' your name," volunteered the Goat Girl, now quite
interested in her transformation.

"No, not 'Was-a-jug' but something like a jug. Let me think--Bug,
hug, chug, mug, pug, rug-RUG? That's it, THAT'S my name, _Ruggedo_!"
shrieked the little gnome joyfully, "and now I know who I am!"

"Well, who are you?" inquired the Ox, stretching his royal nose down
toward the whirling gnome.

"I, why, _I_ am the most important King on the other side of the
desert!" shouted Ruggedo exultantly. "I am the one and only Metal
Monarch and Ruler of all the Gnomes! My caves and caverns under the
mountains of Ev sparkle with jewels and precious stones, mined by my
faithful workers, and my grand army of gnomes outnumbers any army in
OZ." Proudly the ragged little King thumped himself upon the chest.

"Oh, my! Oh, me! Oh, mercy--ercy! If you're as powerful as all that,
maybe you'll help us!" cried the Goat Girl, clasping her hands eagerly.

"Help you? Why should I help you?" The little Gnome stared scornfully
at the two occupants of the cave.

"Because she broke your jug and enchantment, you ungrateful little
wretch!" snorted Nox, lowering his horns. "And you don't look like
a king to me, you just look like a plain ordinary wicked little
ragamuffin, a RUGAMUFFIN!" he bellowed angrily.




CHAPTER 17

Out of the Prison Pit


Nox's angry words had a strange effect on the boastful Gnome King.
Leaning dejectedly against the side of the pit, he drew his hand
wearily across his forehead.

"I remember now," he told them hoarsely. "I once was the Powerful Metal
Monarch, but that was before I fell into the hands of Ozma and that
wicked Wizard of Oz."

"So it was Ozma who turned you to a jug!" exclaimed Handy with all her
hands on her hips.

"Yes, and before that she deprived me of my Kingdom, ducked me in a
Truth Pond, marooned me for years on a desert island, struck me dumb,
and then, when she could think of nothing worse, turned me to this
jug!" screamed Ruggedo, kicking at the fragments of broken china at his
feet.

"You and Ozma have been enemies for a long time, then?" observed the
Ox, looking at the Gnome with great disfavor.

"Yes, yes, ever since that girl Dorothy stole my magic belt and gave
it to Ozma," raged Ruggedo, stamping furiously up and down. "And every
time I try to recover my own property, or capture those wretched girls
and the Emerald City, something goes wrong and they conquer ME! The
last time Ozma turned me to a jug!" cried Ruggedo, his voice rising to
a shrill whistle.

"Well, what did you expect?" inquired Handy Mandy sharply. "That Ozma
would sit calmly on her throne and allow you to conquer her? My--y such
goings on!"

"Oh, then you are friends of Ozma?" said the Gnome King suspiciously.
"But no, you could not be her friends or you would not have broken the
jug. Who ARE you? The Ox is usual enough, except for his golden horns,
but you"--Ruggedo's eyes grew round and anxious as he looked at the
seven-armed Goat Girl, "_YOU_ are odd, aren't you?"

"No, she's not odd!" snapped the Royal Ox severely. He had been through
so much with the sturdy mountain lass, he felt almost as if they were
related. "Handy is just seven times as smart and seven times as handy
as most people, that's all. And since her seven hands have served you
pretty well, try to keep a civil tongue in your head, will you?"

"Oh, all right!" Ruggedo scuffing his foot, looked sulkily from one to
the other. "Much obliged, I'm sure. But what in rockets are we doing
in this miserable hole and what are we waiting for?"

"For a fellow Metal Monarch and Wizard," answered a smooth voice, and
appearing as quietly as he had vanished, Wutz stood calmly before them.
"Come with me, Ruggedo, I have surprising news for you, comrade!" And
without so much as a nod or "thank you" to Nox and Handy Mandy, he
linked his arm through the Gnome's and drew him through the invisible
door, slamming it viciously behind him.

"Hi--yi!" yelled Handy Mandy indignantly. "Come back here! Come back
here! A bargain's a bargain, you old cheat and villain! We've kept our
part and you shall keep yours! Where have you hidden the little King of
Keretaria? Let us out! Let us out, you false faced rascal!"

Nox, as angry as Handy, charged forward, butting his head against the
exact spot where the wizard had disappeared. To his astonishment and
joy the whole section of wall swung outward and he and the Goat Girl,
rushing through, found themselves in a narrow dimly lit silver tunnel.

"To think, to think we could have got out any time!" gulped the Royal
Ox in a vexed voice. "The door was invisible but not locked. Imagine
that, m'lass!"

"Oh, I've other things to do," puffed Handy, peering down the long
passageway to see whether she could catch a glimpse of the two Kings.
"No use trying to imagine anything about this mountain, it's just plain
bewitched and goblinish. But that wizard made us a promise and I'm
going to see that he keeps it. Come on!"

"No! No!" said the Royal Ox, leaning weakly against the side of the
tunnel. "I couldn't bear to look at him again, at least, not just yet.
Wait! I may think of something else! WAIT!" bellowed Nox, as Handy, in
spite of his pleas, started off on a run. "There now, you've dropped
something out of your pocket."

"That silver ball," muttered Handy, scooping it up without slackening
her pace.

"The ball! The _BALL_?" exclaimed Nox, galloping breathlessly to catch
up with her. "Oh, what muddle heads, _WHAT_ muddle heads! It told us to
wait for the wizard. Quick, see what it says now?"

"Well, a lot of good it did waiting for that wizard," grumbled the Goat
Girl; but nevertheless, she stopped and opened the silver ball. Taking
out the folded paper, she held it up toward an amethyst gleaming dully
in the side of the tunnel.

    "Follow me."

directed the paper rather mysteriously.

"But who does 'me' mean?" asked Handy, as Nox, still breathing heavily,
read the message over her shoulder. "I don't see any me, do you? Beans
and butternuts! If you hadn't stopped me I'd have caught those villains
by this time!"

"And what good would that have done?" sniffed the Ox impatiently.
"Remember there are two of them now, and that little gnome is worse
than Wutz and twice as dangerous." Closing his eyes in an effort to
concentrate, Nox repeated over the message, "Follow me! Follow me!
Follow ME! Why of course, it's as plain as oats!" he snorted joyfully.
"'Me' means that ball. Put the message back in the ball, set the ball
down and then see what happens." And what happened, was amazing enough,
for the silver ball, once it was on the floor of the tunnel began to
roll rapidly along ahead of them, faster and faster and faster, till
Handy and Nox had all they could do to keep it in sight.

"Where do you suppose it's taking us?" gasped the Goat Girl, thankful
that so far the tunnel had been more or less straight and fairly well
lighted.

"To Kerry," said the Royal Ox positively. "Now watch that turn, m'lass.
What's ahead? It's growing so dark I can't even see my own shadow!"

"It's a flight of steps," whispered Handy, gazing fearfully into the
deep well of a circular stairway winding down into the darkness. They
could hear the chink of the silver ball as it rolled from step to
step, so, taking her courage in all hands, the Goat Girl, herself,
began to descend. Nox, grunting and muttering lugubriously, came just
behind her. Steps were difficult enough for the Ox at any time, but
negotiating a flight of circular steps in pitch darkness was terrifying
and dangerous in the extreme.

"Be careful!" warned Handy, looking up anxiously. "Don't slip, or
you'll break my heart."

"More than that, I'm afraid," quavered the Royal Ox, setting his front
feet cautiously on the step below while he balanced his hind quarters
perilously on the one above.




CHAPTER 18

Wutz and the Gnome King Leave for the Capital!


Meanwhile, Wutz and Ruggedo had shot up in the wizard's silver car and
were now in earnest conversation together.

"How in suds did that girl break your enchantment?" asked Wutz,
dropping irritably to his silver workbench. "I was watching her every
minute through an invisible window and I didn't see her do a thing but
break the jug. Now why couldn't I have thought of that?"

"Oh, what does it matter?" Ruggedo settled himself with a joyful little
wriggle beside the Silver Monarch. "What does it matter so long as I am
free and able to help you? So you really think you can make yourself
Ruler of Oz?" he went on, glancing enviously round the wizard's well
stocked den, with its tables full of magic apparatus and its shelves
and shelves of dusty volumes of wizard and witch works. Wutz had
confided his plans and intentions to Ruggedo on the ride up. "Say!"
exclaimed the Gnome King suddenly, "How did you get Glinda's record
book? That's the most important treasure in her castle!"

"Of course!" Lazily the wizard reached for his silver pipe. "Well, it's
a long story, Rug, but I don't mind telling you that I have agents
working in every Kingdom of the country. Seven, who was assigned to the
Quadling Country, brought in the record book, smallifying it in order
to steal and carry it here, and restoring it to proper size when it
arrived. Six and Eleven have brought me useful magic from the Winkies
and Gillikins, but Five managed to steal Ozma's own magic picture, and
ha ha! since he couldn't find the Gnome King's belt, he brought me the
Gnome King himself! Pretty clever of him to discover you were a jug,
eh?"

"Re-markable!" sighed Ruggedo, as Wutz paused to blow a silver bubble
which floated out of the work den, breaking somewhere outside with a
tinkling bell-like explosion.

"Two glasses of melted silver," snapped the wizard to a smart looking
bell boy who came in answer to this singular summons. "Now," continued
Wutz, looking at the Gnome King through half closed eyes, "before I
attempt to capture the Emerald City, I must have one of two things;
either the silver hammer belonging to a witch of the West or the magic
belt that once belonged to you. So far, none of my agents has been able
to find the witch, locate the hammer, or discover where Ozma now keeps
your magic belt. But you, its rightful owner, must know exactly where
it is hidden?"

Ruggedo, without saying anything, nodded briefly.

"Well then," said Wutz, "if you will help me steal the magic belt,
which I understand is the most potent and powerful magic in Ev or Oz, I
will kick Kaliko off your throne, restore your own Kingdom and give you
besides any one of the four Oz Kingdoms you may fancy."

"Oh, don't bother me with any of the Oz Kingdoms. I'm sick of the
place!" frowned the Gnome, wagging his beard vindictively. "All I
want is my own old Kingdom and my own magic belt! But I tell you what
I will do. I'll help you steal this belt, for I know exactly where it
is hidden, show you how it works so you can transform Ozma and all her
friends and counselors to rocks and rubble. BUT, when you are safely
established as supreme Wizard of Oz, you must return the belt to me."

"Oh, naturally!" promised the wizard, chuckling to himself as he
thought how quickly he would turn Ruggedo to a rock once he was wearing
the famous belt. Taking a glass of melted silver from the tray the boy
had just set down, Wutz lifted it to his lips, and Ruggedo, his eyes
glittering with all their old spitefulness, raised his own glass to
drink to the wicked bargain.

"Come," he sputtered, wiping his mouth on the back of his hand. "When
do we start? What magic have you to carry us to the capital and open
the emerald safe where the magic belt and other important treasures
of Ozma are hidden? But wait, perhaps we had better look in the magic
picture and see where Ozma and the Wizard of Oz are now?"

"I am afraid we cannot do that," Wutz explained regretfully. "Seven
spoiled the canvas in some way when he reduced it to carry it here.
It doesn't show anything now and I've not had time to repair the
damage."

"Pshaw, that's too bad," said Ruggedo, going over to touch the picture,
now hanging on the wizard's wall. "But the record book's still working,
I suppose?"

"Oh, yes," said the wizard, stepping up to the marble table and
glancing down at the open page. "And listen to this. It says," roared
the Silver King, holding his sides and simply rocking with wicked
merriment, "it says: 'The two metal monarchs are plotting the downfall
of the present ruler of Oz.'"

"What else does it say?" inquired the Gnome King, who had had more
experience than his companion in dealing with the magicians of the
Emerald City.

"It says, 'Ozma and her counselors have gone to the castle of Glinda
the Good,'" Wutz told him complacently closing and padlocking the big
volume.

"Then we'd better start at once and before they return," declared
Ruggedo. "For as soon as we have my belt we can change them to rocks,
wherever they are. The most important thing is to get that belt before
they know we are after it. But how are we going to get to the Emerald
City and how're we going to open that safe?"

"My silver blowpipe will reduce the safe to a heap of ashes without
injuring the contents," answered the wizard, "and reaching the capital
will be the simplest part of all!"

Taking a silver tube from a high shelf, Wutz put it in his pocket and
reaching for his bubble pipe, he began to blow an enormous quicksilver
bubble round himself and the Gnome King. Slowly and with both Kings
inside, the bubble rose, passed in a silver mist out of the wizard's
den, up through the honeycomb of caves, caverns and grottos, on up--and
up, till it floated right out of the top of the Silver King's Mountain.




CHAPTER 19

At the Bottom of the Mountain!


At the same moment the silver bubble carrying Wutz and Ruggedo burst
out of the top of the mountain, Handy Mandy and Nox reached the bottom,
arriving at last at the end of the winding stair. One amethyst burned
dimly on the small landing, and crowded uncomfortably together the two
prisoners found themselves facing a heavily barred door.

    Private Lower of the Wizard of Wutz.
                 Keep Out!

announced a surly sign. But Handy and Nox, their legs still quivering
from the long downward climb, were in no humor to be stopped by a sign.

"Lower!" sniffed Handy Mandy disgustedly. "I should think it was, we
must be at the very bottom of this miserable mountain. Lower--indeed!
Well, I expect a lower is the opposite of a tower, come on!" Picking up
the silver ball, Handy squinted sharply at the door, giving it a quick
shove to see whether it was locked or fitted with an invisible moving
panel. But there was nothing remarkable about this door, and nothing
on it except a very small silver keyhole, which at once recalled to
the Goat Girl the key she had been carrying around ever since she left
Keretaria.

"Oh, Nox, I believe the key in your horn will fit!" she cried
excitedly, and deftly removing the left prong of Nox's headgear she
shook out the ball. Then, while Nox fairly panting with impatience
looked on, Handy took the key from the ball and inserted it in the
silver lock. When it turned easily and smoothly she was almost afraid
to open the door. What would they find on the other side? What had the
wizard done to his helpless young captive? As Handy hesitated, Nox
rushed forward, banging the door open with his great shoulder.

"Kerry! Kerry!" wailed the faithful Ox, and falling to his knees,
Nox began to snort and blubber in real earnest. Handy, hurrying
after him into the small stuffy cell, saw a handsome boy in hunting
costume standing motionless and silent as a statue in the center of
a great shimmering violet bubble. Without thinking or reasoning, or
even stopping to consult the Ox, the Goat Girl flung out all her arms
toward the solitary figure, her iron hand puncturing the bubble with a
deafening pop.

"Why, hello Nox!" The Little King stepped calmly out of the misty
vapor, all that was left of the wizard's bubble. "Where's your other
horn? And who is this jolly looking girl?"

WHO, indeed? There was so much to be told and explained, even with
Handy and Nox talking as fast as they could and taking turns, it took
almost an hour to tell the story of their journey from Keretaria to the
Silver Mountain and their awful experiences with the Wizard of Wutz.

Kerry himself remembered nothing since he had started out on the
hunting expedition. He listened with angry exclamations and bounces
as Nox related the tale of King Kerr's treachery and the sad state of
affairs in Keretaria. "And I've been shut up in this bubble for two
years!" mourned the little King, looking round the dismal cell with a
shudder. "Why it makes my head ache just to think of it!"

"Mine, too," agreed Handy, clapping Nox's left horn in place. "But
it's almost over now, my lad. If we can just find some way out of this
mountain, I'll settle old King Kerr and his High Boys, not to speak of
this woozling wizard!"

Placing Kerry on Nox's back, Handy looked nervously out the door of
the Lower. At sight of the winding stair Nox gave a great groan and
shudder. "I'll never climb those steps again!" he declared, planting
his feet stubbornly. "Never! Where's that silver hammer, m'lass? Give
it a tap and see what the dwarf can do for us? Wutz and Ruggedo are too
busy with their wicked plans to bother us now."

"I wouldn't be too sure of that," muttered the Goat Girl. Nevertheless,
she pulled out the hammer and tapped it lightly on the floor.

"Well, what's wanted?" yawned Himself, appearing instantly and in the
exact spot the hammer had struck.

"We want to get out of here!" cried Kerry, so excited and delighted
with the purple bearded dwarf, he instantly forgot all his troubles.
With a crooked smile at the little King, Himself looked questioningly
at Handy, and at the Goat Girl's quick nod, rapped his knuckles on
the north wall of the Lower. At once, a small panel slipped aside,
revealing an elevator, its door invitingly open. Waving all her hands
to thank Himself, who was already beginning to disappear, Handy stepped
inside. Nox, with Kerry still perched on his back, just managed to
squeeze in, when the door snapped shut and the elevator sped upward
carrying its three passengers in double quicksilver time to the work
den of the wizard. Handy, a bit disappointed not to find herself on
top of the mountain, stepped out first. As Nox, with an awkward jump,
followed her, the door slammed sharply and the elevator dropped like a
plummet to the bottom of the mountain.

"Oh, this must be where Wutz works all his magic transformations,"
breathed Kerry, sliding off Nox's back and gazing around with deep
interest and curiosity. "I'll bet he blew a bubble round me right in
this very den. Wonder where he is now?" There was a slight cough at
Kerry's question and turning, they saw Nifflepok standing uncertainly
in the doorway.

"Ah, so we meet again!" cried Handy, doubling up all her fists and
walking grimly toward the Silver King's fat Minister. "Where is that
rascally Master of yours? As you probably know by this time, we kept
our part of the bargain, but he still has to keep his."

"Indeed, you are fortunate to have escaped with your lives," muttered
Wutz, taking off his hat and looking anxiously inside. "And I'm sorry
to tell you the Wizard of Wutz NEVER keeps his bargains. No matter how
hard we work or try to please him, sooner or later, we are all shelved
or potted!"

"Then why work for such a villain?" snorted the Royal Ox gruffly.
"Where is he now?"

"Yes, where is he now?" asked Kerry, who in spite of the terrible
stories he had heard, hoped to get a look at the wonderful wizard who
had enchanted him.

"Gone!" answer Nifflepok, putting on his high hat and giving it a
couple of taps. "He's bubbled off with the Gnome King to conquer Oz,
and I expect by this time they've bewitched about half the inhabitants
of the Emerald City."

"Oh, what a shame!" burst out Kerry.

"Bubbled off? What do you mean by that?" The Goat Girl reached out with
all her arms to pull the Silver King's little Minister closer.

"I mean, bubbled off," repeated Nifflepok, struggling to release
himself from Handy's clutches. "He blew a quicksilver bubble and he and
Ruggedo sailed away in it, if that's any plainer."

"Oh, then we had better go right after them," snorted the Ox in an
anxious voice. "Show us out of this mountain, you little pudding, or
I'll toss you higher than a kite."

"Oh, do let's do something!" begged Kerry, who, being young, was quite
daring and absolutely foolhardy. "We aren't going to let those dreadful
Kings conquer the country, are we, and not lift a hand?"

"Well, I'm sure I'd lift all seven if it would do any good," mused
Handy Mandy in a depressed voice. "But how can we stop them? Wutz and
Rug have probably stolen all the magic in Ozma's palace by this time,
the thieving rascals!"

"But surely YOU have some magic?" ventured Nifflepok, who had finally
jerked himself free. "Or you could never have disenchanted that gnome
or found the wizard's Lower and rescued this boy; and if you have--"
he warned, backing rapidly away, "if you have, you'd better use it
QUICK. When Wutz finishes conquering Oz, he's sure to remember you and
turn you to rocks and rubble. He's going to turn everyone to rocks and
rubble!" wailed Nifflepok, dashing out of the workshop.

"Great Gazoo, what shall we do? I don't want to be a rock," snorted
Nox.

"And I won't be a rock!" stormed the little King. "It was bad enough
being shut up in a bubble and missing two whole years--oh, you won't
let him turn us to rocks, will you, Handy? And do let's help poor Ozma,
before it's too late!"

Kerry looked up at her so pleadingly, Handy, against all her
inclinations and better judgment, pulled out the silver hammer again.
"The hammer will be better than the ball," she reasoned quickly, "for
the ball only seems to help Keretarians. Now then!" Lifting the hammer
in her iron hand, the Goat Girl brought it down sharply on the wizard's
marble table. Silver sparks flew up in every direction and out of the
very middle of the shower stepped the yawning dwarf.

"Say, I'm trying to take a nap," grumbled Himself, stretching his arms
up sleepily. "What do you fellows want now?"

"We want to go to the Emerald City of Oz and save Ozma from Wutz and
the Gnome King!" explained Handy in one breathless sentence.

"My! All that?" Stifling another yawn, Himself grinned mischievously at
the Goat Girl. "Then stand in line, please." So Handy placed herself
in front of the Royal Ox and Kerry stepped behind him, and the dwarf,
seizing the hammer, brought it down with a terrible blow just behind
the little King. And what a blow it was you can readily understand,
when I tell you that its force carried the three travelers clear out of
the Silver King's Mountain and all the way to the Emerald City itself.
Flying along for a moment beside them, Himself slipped the hammer
back in the Goat Girl's hand, and then with another tremendous yawn,
disappeared.




CHAPTER 20

Just in Time!


In Ozma's palace in the Emerald City, everything was very quiet and
still. Not surprising when you consider that the wizard of Wutz had
blown his patent stupefying powder down all the chimneys before he and
Ruggedo dared to enter. Then, mooring the silver bubble to one of the
castle spires, the two conspirators had slipped through an open window
and proceeded without delay or interference to the private sitting room
of the absent ruler. There Ruggedo with a spiteful laugh, thrust his
head right into the mouths of the Hungry Tiger and Cowardly Lion. Rigid
and helpless they sat before Ozma's safe, motionless and completely
stupefied, as were all of Ozma's other faithful servants and retainers.
Reducing the safe to a heap of green ashes was the work of but a
moment, then, pulling the Gnome King's belt from the sparkling heap of
treasures, Wutz sprang to his feet.

"Quick! How does it work?" he cried, clasping the belt round his thin
waist. "We'll not have a second's safety till Ozma, Glinda, the Wizard
of Oz and all those girl Princesses are out of the way."

"But first you must restore my Kingdom!" insisted Ruggedo, dancing up
and down. "Here give it to me. I'm used to it and can work faster.
First I'll wish Kaliko off my throne and myself back in my underground
castle, then--"

"Oh, no, you won't!" declared Wutz, holding the bouncing Gnome King off
with one hand. "How do I know what you will do once you reach your own
Kingdom? Why--I might never see this belt again."

"But I promise to send it back to you," hissed Ruggedo, his eyes
snapping real sparks.

"I'd rather have the belt than the promise," said Wutz, shaking his
head stubbornly.

"Give it to me, I say, GIVE it to me!" yelled Ruggedo, now in a perfect
rage. "How do I know what you will do when you know the trick of using
it? Why, you might even turn me to a rock to be rid of me."

"What? Change my dearest friend and most powerful ally to a rock?"
exclaimed the Wizard with pretended horror. "By the left horn of my
silver cow, I promise to return this belt as soon as I am Ruler of
Oz!" Ruggedo longed to snatch his belt away from the scheming Silver
Monarch, but as he was neither big or strong enough to do this, there
was nothing for him to do but agree to the wizard's terms.

"All right," he groaned dismally. "Listen, then--" But as Wutz bent his
head and the little gnome began to whisper hoarse directions in his
ear, there was a dreadful thump and clatter behind them.

"STOP!" commanded the Goat Girl, the first to recover from the shock
of the landing, and dear knows Handy should have been used to sudden
landings by this time. "STOP!" Whirling round with a howl of fury,
Wutz sprang straight at her, but Handy, who still clutched the silver
hammer in her iron hand, was too quick for him and brought it down
with a resounding crack on the top of his head. "Take 'em away! Take
'em away!" cried Handy hysterically, as Wutz fell over backwards, and
Himself, appearing exactly where the hammer had struck, leaped off the
wizard's head to save himself from a fall.

"But first we must have that magic belt," chuckled the hammer elf.
Giving Ruggedo, who was struggling frantically to get his belt from
around the Silver King's waist, a quick push, Himself unbuckled the
clasps and tossed the magic girdle to the Goat Girl. Then grabbing the
howling gnome and senseless wizard, each by his neck, the efficient
dwarf vanished in a flash of lightning and a crash of thunder that
shook the castle to its foundations. Nox dropped to his knees. Kerry,
still stunned by the hammer blow that had carried them to the Emerald
City, and Handy, herself, with her arms still upraised, stared in dumb
astonishment at the quivering vacuum where the two Kings and Himself,
the elf, had been whirling a moment before.

"Oh, Handy, HANDY, you've really done it!" shouted Kerry, finding his
voice at last. "Why, you've saved the whole of Ozma's Kingdom and
struck only one blow! But watch out--are those beasts alive or just
statues?"

"Statues, I hope," grunted the Royal Ox, lurching dizzily to his feet.
"Well, here we are in the capital, m'lass, and I must say you have
handled everything beautifully, beautifully!"

"Halt! Who goes there! Whoa! HO! Halt and Surrender!" piped a
frightened voice. "Here they are, your Majesty, the robbers themselves,
caught red-handed in the act of robbing our royal safe!"

"Red--white--and--blue handed, if you ask me!" cried the Patchwork
Girl, blinking her shoe button eyes at the red rubber hand with which
Handy grasped the Gnome King's belt, the white hand she had reached out
to hold on to Kerry, the iron hand still clutching the silver hammer.
All the rest of her hands the Goat Girl held stiffly before her.
Brushing aside the Soldier with the Green Whiskers, who promptly dived
behind a sofa, Scraps jerked the Gnome King's belt out of Handy's
rubber hand and gave her a shove that sent her flying over backwards.
"Take that, you Monster!" yelled Scraps.

"Well," sputtered the Goat Girl, sprawling flat on her back, "here's
gratitude for you!"

"How dare you call Handy a Monster?" bellowed Nox, charging angrily
after the Patchwork Girl.

"Oh! Do be careful!" called Ozma with a little scream, as Nox almost
caught up with Scraps, and Kerry began to belabor the Soldier with
Green Whiskers over the head with a candlestick. "Oh! Oh! My poor Lion!
My poor Tiger! My SAFE! Why, I--just--can't believe it!" wailed the
little Fairy Ruler, staring sorrowfully down at the Goat Girl, who had
made no attempt to rise nor explain her embarrassing position.

"Then don't believe it!" cried Kerry breathlessly. "For it isn't
true! This brave girl and Nox have got the best of Wutz and the Gnome
King and saved your whole bally Kingdom and here you've gone and had
her knocked down. Shame on you! Get away from me, you cotton stuffed
horror!" screamed the little King, as Scraps, eluding the Ox, made a
determined jump in his direction.

"Quiet! QUIET!" The Scarecrow, who with Glinda, the Wizard, Dorothy,
Betsy and Trot, now came hurrying into the room, raised both arms and
looked around pleadingly. The whole royal party, traveling in Glinda's
swan chariot, had just arrived on the balcony outside, but Ozma, Scraps
and the Soldier with Green Whiskers had been first on the scene of
action.

"The boy is right," declared Glinda, crossing slowly to a green sofa.
"I can see by her face and hands--" Glinda smiled faintly--"that this
girl is both honest and industrious."

"Thanks!" murmured Handy, as the Scarecrow, ever a gentleman, bounded
forward to assist her to her feet. The flimsy straw stuffed fellow lost
his balance in the attempt, but his little act of gallantry did much to
relieve an awkward moment.

"You see," puffed the Scarecrow, seating Handy with a flourish, "for
the last ten days we've all been pretty much upset around here and
you'll have to excuse Scraps for jumping at conclusions."

"Please do!" Ozma spoke pleasantly and seriously as she seated herself
in her small arm chair, leaning over to take the Gnome King's belt
from Scraps. "But if some of you kind people will just explain?" The
Little Fairy looked anxiously from the stupefied Tiger and Lion to her
pulverized safe, her eyes coming back to rest on the Goat Girl, the
great White Ox and the handsome young Munchkin.




CHAPTER 21

The Hammer Elf Explains


"Go ahead and explain," said Handy, closing her eyes and leaning back
in her chair with all her hands hanging limply at her side. So Nox, a
bit haughtily and tossing his head proudly from time to time, began
at the beginning and told all that had happened since Handy Mandy had
flown from Mt. Mern. How the Goat Girl had found the magic in his horn,
how they had traveled together from Keretaria to the Silver Mountain
and there, in their search for the little King, discovered Wutz's plot
to make himself Supreme Wizard of Oz. And last of all he explained how
Handy, with the help of the silver hammer, had subdued the two wicked
Kings.

"Well, it certainly was very kind of you to take all this trouble for
us--after you had already had so many worries of your own," sighed
Ozma, as Nox, finishing his story, gazed round the room with lordly
condescension.

"Yes, wasn't it?" Handy opened her eyes and thoughtfully regarded
the little Ruler of Oz. "Still, I'm glad now that we did save you."
The Goat Girl's round pleasant face was suddenly wreathed in smiles.
"I didn't think I was going to like you, but I do," she admitted
cheerfully. "I believe you're about the best ruler Oz could have and
besides, you're pretty as a goat."

"As a goat!" gasped the Wizard of Oz while Dorothy and the other girls
had all they could do to keep from laughing right out loud. But Ozma,
who was a very understanding little person, smiled kindly back at Handy
Mandy.

"Goats _are_ pretty," she agreed, nodding her head politely. "And since
you must miss your own goats very much, perhaps you would like me to
send you back to Mt. Mern after you've seen a bit of the capital?"

"Oh, Handy wouldn't leave us!" snorted the Royal Ox, moving as close
to the Goat Girl as he could get. "We couldn't get along without Handy
Mandy, your Majesty."

"Oh, please let her stay in Keretaria," begged the little King adding
his voice to that of his Royal Ox. "You will live with us in the
palace, won't you Handy?"

"Well, if I just had my goats--" considered the seven-armed maiden.
"Mt. Mern would seem rather dull after Oz," she acknowledged pensively.
"But what about that old King who's still on Kerry's throne--and what
am I to do with this silver hammer--and what do you suppose Himself has
done with Wutz and Ruggedo?"

"Yes, what's to be done with Wutz?" echoed the Scarecrow wrinkling up
his cotton forehead. And now the little sitting room began fairly to
buzz with excited questions and suggestions, for there was still a lot
to be explained and settled. The Ozites could hardly keep their eyes
off the seven-armed Goat Girl, the handsome young ruler of Keretaria
and his Royal Ox. Dorothy longed to unscrew his horn and test its
magic power for herself, but Ozma, anxious to repair all the damage
done by the wicked wizard, now raised her scepter for silence.

Clasping on the Gnome King's belt, Ozma first brought back her magic
picture and with a quick wish returned Glinda's book of records to her
castle in the South. Next, though she knew neither the extent nor the
nature of the wizard's other thefts she caused to be restored to their
rightful owners all the magic appliances in the Silver King's den. The
Scarecrow had already reported the stupefied condition of the other
occupants of the palace, so Ozma's next thought was to restore them
to their accustomed selves. No sooner was the Cowardly Lion released
than he crawled under a table, but the Hungry Tiger rushed out on the
balcony, growling and lashing his tail, as he thought of the indignity
he had suffered.

After a short conference with Handy Mandy, Ozma freed all the potted
prisoners of the wicked wizard, and made Nifflepok King of the Silver
Mountain. She moved the cliff dwellings of the people to the outside
of the mountain so Wutz's pale subjects could enjoy with the rest of
the Gillikins, the bright sunshine and beneficent climate of Oz. The
Magic Mountain itself, with all its dark pits and jeweled caverns,
Ozma sealed up tightly and forever. The wizard's agents were turned
to moles, for they were already more like these boring little animals
than men. After each magic wish or transformation, the little group in
the royal sitting room would look in the magic picture, which Ozma had
immediately repaired. And in each case Handy felt that the ruler of Oz
had used both wisdom and good judgment. Nox, as they were watching the
wizard's agents turn to moles, gave a snort of surprise, for the first
figure shown was old King Kerr, who was really Number Nine. As the
wicked impostor changed quickly from a man to a mole and scurried off
the throne and away to bury himself in the blue forest, Nox and Handy
both heaved a sigh of relief and satisfaction.

While Ozma was working on the magic safe, Handy, deciding to try a
little of her own magic, softly tapped the silver hammer on the arm
of her chair. At once, and to the delight and interest of everyone,
Himself, the elf, appeared astride the arm, holding a small cactus
plant in each hand.

"I wish you in the future to obey the summons of her Majesty, Ozma of
Oz," smiled the Goat Girl, placing the silver hammer as she spoke, in
Ozma's lap. "This young fairy is more experienced in magic than I, and
will know how to use the hammer to best advantage."

"Oh, all right! But I rather liked working for you," grinned Himself.
"And say, I tried to turn these rascals to plants but this was the best
I could do." Setting the two pots of cactus down on a small writing
desk, the hammer elf bowed first to Handy and then to Ozma. "Wait!
Don't go!" begged the little Fairy as Himself showed unmistakable signs
of disappearing. "Do tell us about this silver hammer and who owned it
first."

"It belonged to Wunchie, a witch of the West, who's lived in the
Munchkin Mountains for about a thousand years, and used it to control
as many of the Munchkin Kings as she could," explained the dwarf
balancing himself cleverly on an ink well.

"Then I suppose Wunchie was responsible for the prophecy in Keretaria?"
surmised Nox, blinking his eyes at the hammer elf. The dwarf nodded
cheerfully. "Yes, Wunchie invented that prophecy," he told them, "and
placed her own white oxen in the country. Each time she had trouble
forcing the King to do as she wished, she tapped him and the ox on
the head with her hammer. But I took rather a fancy to you," admitted
Himself looking fondly at Nox. "So, when she ordered me to tap you off
and traded little King Kerry to Wutz for a basket of jumping beans and
put Wutz's agent on the throne of Keretaria, I decided to take a hand
myself. So I gave you only a light tap and at the same time, I stored
enough magic in your horns to help you find Kerry--and with the help of
this handy Goat Girl you DID find him!" beamed the hammer elf. "I knew
my magic was good. You can't work for a witch without learning good
magic. But now, since everything is turning out so splendidly, I'll
just go back to my tree stump. One, two--three, back--to--my--tree!"

"But what became of the witch?" cried Ozma catching hold of the dwarf's
purple beard, for his head had already vanished.

"Ha, ha! She exploded and popped off!" roared a voice from the place
where the elf's head had been. "I told her not to eat those jumping
beans! And after that, I buried her hammer in the garden of Keretaria
and there it stayed till Handy ploughed it up. Goodbye all!" And the
body of the hammer elf melted into nothing and was gone.

"My--y, what a clever fellow!" chuckled Handy. "So, now Wutz and
Ruggedo are a couple of cactuses! Mm--mmm! Mmmm--mm! Unpleasant to the
last! Do you suppose anyone can ever disenchant them? For goatness
sake be careful!" begged Handy as Jellia, in answer to her Mistress's
ring, came to carry the plants to the conservatory. "Whatever you do,
don't drop 'em. And to think that the Wizard is potted himself! Well,
I'll never have a hand in breaking his enchantment!"

"I never thought anyone could ever break Ruggedo's enchantment,"
confessed Ozma. "When I changed him to a jug, I commanded him to keep
that shape till he was broken by the seventh hand of a traveling
Mernite. And at that time I did not even know there was such a place as
Mt. Mern or a clever Goat Girl like Handy."

"But aren't you glad there was!" shouted the little Wizard of Oz
tossing up his hat and catching it on his nose. "Aren't we all glad to
know Handy Mandy, Nox and this jolly young King?"

"Long live the Royal Ox and the Little King of Keretaria!" cried the
cheering Ozites. "Long live Handy Mandy, the seven-armed wonder of the
world and OZ!" And, of course, they will live long--everyone lives long
in Oz. But even if Handy lives to be a hundred, she will never forget
the grand banquet given that evening in her honor. Besides the famous
people she already knew, the Goat Girl was presented to all the other
celebrities at Ozma's court, and shaking hands with them heartily and
seven at a time, she had never been so flattered and fussed over in
her life. Nox and Kerry came in for their share of honors, too. There
was nothing the Ozians would not have done for their three new friends
and rescuers. Ozma, overwhelmed by Handy's generosity in giving her
the silver hammer, and already indebted to her for saving the Kingdom,
racked her brains for some wonderful gift to reward the brave mountain
lass. But it was Nox who solved the difficulty by confiding to Ozma
that Handy desired more than anything else a set of gloves for her
hands. It seemed she had never had enough gloves for more than two at
a time. So, smiling secretly to herself, Ozma gave the Goat Girl seven
sets of fine kid gloves and an emerald necklace that wound three times
round her sturdy neck. With the necklace, a complete new outfit and her
forty-nine gloves, Handy Mandy felt herself quite ready for high life
and royal society.

"Though you really should wear a boxing glove on that iron hand,"
whispered the Scarecrow, as Handy blushingly resumed her seat after
Ozma's speech of presentation. "Stay in the Emerald City and we will
make you a general in the army," promised the straw man earnestly. But
Handy shook her head with tears of merriment in her eyes. Though she
never quite forgave Scraps for pushing her over, she and the Scarecrow
were already as friendly and easy as an old pair of shoes. "Handy
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday," the
straw man had nicknamed her because she had a hand for every day in the
week.

Nox had insisted on Himself being invited to the banquet and the clever
elf added much to the pleasure and hilarity of that memorable occasion.
Indeed, many times afterward when she felt bored or lonely, Ozma would
summon Himself just to amuse and cheer her up. The silver hammer was
stored away with the other important magic treasures and is regarded
by many as the most powerful magic in the castle. Handy Mandy kept the
blue flower to help her on future journeys and after she and her two
friends had spent a happy week in the Emerald City, Ozma reluctantly
wished Kerry and Nox to Keretaria and the Goat Girl back to Mt. Mern.

Here, for a month, Handy Mandy astonished the villagers with the story
of her travels, then gathering up her goats she took herself and them
back by a fast wishing pill the Wizard had given her--to the Kingdom of
Keretaria. As the Goat Girl's hands retained all of their strength and
willingness, and Nox's horns all their magic--even to giving wise and
useful messages, these two and little Kerry ruled the Kingdom between
them with such skill and cleverness everyone was enormously happy and
prosperous!


﻿

                                KABUMPO
                                 IN OZ

Dear Children:

Do you like Elephants? Do you believe in Giants? And do you love all the
jolly people of the Wonderful Land of Oz?

Well, then you’ll want to hear about the latest happenings in that
delightful Kingdom. All are set forth in true Oz fashion in “Kabumpo in
Oz,” the fifteenth Oz book.

Kabumpo is an Elegant Elephant. He is very old and wise, and has a
kindly heart, as have all the Oz folks. In the new book you’ll meet
Prince Pompa, and Peg Amy, a charming Wooden Doll. There are new
countries, strange adventures and the most surprising Box of Magic you
have ever heard of. Ruggedo, the wicked old Gnome King, does a lot of
mischief with this before Princess Ozma can stop him.

Of course Dorothy, the Scarecrow, Scraps, Glinda the Good, Tik-Tok, and
other old friends all are alive and busy in the new book. I am just back
from the Emerald City with the best of Oz wishes for everybody, _but
especially for you_.



                            LIST OF CHAPTERS


                                                                    Page
  1 The Exploding Birthday Cake                                       15
  2 Picking a Proper Princess                                         30
  3 Kabumpo and Pompa Disappear                                       44
  4 The Curious Cottabus Appears                                      50
  5 In the City of The Figure Heads                                   62
  6 Ruggedo’s History In Six Rocks                                    78
  7 Sir Hokus And The Giants                                          95
  8 Woe in the Emerald City                                          105
  9 Mixed Magic Makes Mischief                                       114
  10 Peg and Wag to the Rescue                                       132
  11 The King of the Illumi Nation                                   145
  12 The Delicious Sea of Soup                                       160
  13 On the Road to Ev                                               174
  14 Terror in Ozma’s Palace                                         188
  15 The Sand Man Takes a Hand                                       205
  16 Kabumpo Vanquishes The Twigs                                    211
  17 Meeting the Runaway Country                                     226
  18 Prince Pompadore Proposes                                       240
  19 Ozma Takes Things in Hand                                       255
  20 The Proper Princess is Found                                    267
  21 How It All Came About                                           281
  22 Ruggedo’s Last Rock                                             292

                   [Illustration: Princess Ozma, of Oz]

                       [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 1
                      The Exploding Birthday Cake


“The cake, you chattering Chittimong! Where is the cake? Stirem, Friem,
Hashem, _where_ is the cake?” cried Eejabo, chief footman in the palace
of Pumperdink, bouncing into the royal pantry.

The three cooks, too astonished for speech, and with staring eyes,
pointed to the center table. The great, gorgeous birthday cake was gone,
though not two seconds before it had been placed on the table by Hashem
himself.

“It was my m-m-asterpiece,” sobbed Hashem, tearing off his cap and
throwing his apron over his head.

“Help! Robbers! Thieves!” cried Stirem and Friem, running to the window.

Here _was_ a howdedo. The trumpets blowing for the celebration to begin
and the best part of the celebration gone!

“We’ll all be dipped for this!” wailed Eejabo, flinging open the second
best china closet so violently that three silver cups and a pewter mug
tumbled out. Just then there was a scream from Hashem, who had removed
the apron from his head. “Look!” he shrieked. “There it is!”

Back to the table rushed the other three, Stirem and Friem rubbing their
eyes and Eejabo his head where the cups had bumped him severely. Upon
the table stood the royal cake, as pink and perfect as ever.

“It was there all the time, mince my eyebrows!” spluttered Hashem in an
injured voice. “Called me a Chittimong, did you?” Grasping a big wooden
spoon he ran angrily at Eejabo.

“Was it gone or wasn’t it?” cried Eejabo, appealing to the others and
hastily catching up a bread knife to defend himself. Instantly there
arose a babble.

“It was!”

“It wasn’t!”

“Was!” Rap, bang, _clatter_. In a minute they were in a furious
argument, not only with words but with spoons, forks and bowls. And dear
knows what would have become of the cake had not a bell rung loudly and
the second footman poked his head through the door.

“The cake! Where is the cake?” he wheezed importantly.

So Eejabo, dodging three cups and a salt cellar, seized the great silver
platter and dashed into the great banquet hall. One pink coat tail was
missing and his wig was somewhat elevated over the left ear from the
lump raised by the pewter mug, but he summoned what dignity he could and
joined the grand procession of footmen who were bearing gold and silver
dishes filled with goodies for the birthday feast of Prince Pompadore of
Pumperdink.

The royal guests were already assembled and just as Eejabo entered, the
pages blew a shrill blast upon their silver trumpets and the Prime
Pumper stepped forward to announce their Majesties.

“Oyez! Oyez!” shouted the Prime Pumper, pounding on the floor with his
silver staff, while the guests politely inclined their heads just as if
they had not heard the same announcement dozens of times before:

“Oyez! Oyez!

  “Pompus the Proud
  And Pozy Pink,
  King and Queen
  Of Pumperdink—
  Way for the King
  And clear the floor,
  Way for our good
  Prince Pompadore.
  Way for the Elegant
  Elephant—Way
  For the King and
  The Queen and the
  Prince, I say!”

So everybody _wayed_, which is to say they bowed, and down the center of
the room swept Pompus, very fat and gorgeous in his purple robes and
jeweled crown, and Pozy Pink, very stately and queenlike in her ermine
cloak, and Prince Pompadore very straight and handsome! In fact, they
looked exactly as a good old-fashioned royal family should.

                       [Illustration: Pumperdink]

But Kabumpo, who swayed along grandly after the Prince—few royal
families could boast of so royal and elegant an elephant! He was huge
and gray. On his head he wore jeweled bands and a jeweled court robe
billowed out majestically as he walked. His little eyes twinkled merrily
and his big ears flapped so sociably, that just to look at him put one
in a good humor. Kabumpo was the only elephant in Pumperdink, or in any
Kingdom near Pumperdink, so no wonder he was a prime favorite at Court.
He had been given to the King at Pompa’s christening by a friendly
stranger and since then had enjoyed every luxury and advantage. He was
not only treated as a member of the royal family, but was always
addressed as _Sir_ by all of the palace servants.

“He lends an air of elegance to our Court,” the King was fond of saying,
and the Elegant Elephant he surely had become. Now an Elegant Elephant
at Court might seem strange in a regular up-to-date country, but
Pumperdink is not at all regular nor up to date. It is a cozy,
old-fashioned Kingdom, ’way up in the northern part of the Gilliken
country of Oz; old-fashioned enough to wear knee breeches and have a
King and cozy enough to still enjoy birthday parties and candy pulls.

If Pompus, the King, was a bit proud who could blame him? His Queen was
the loveliest, his son the most charming and his elephant the most
elegant and unusual for twenty Kingdoms round about. And Pompus, for all
his pride, had a very simple way of ruling. When the Pumperdinkians did
right they were rewarded; when they did wrong they were dipped.

In the very center of the courtyard there is a great stone well with a
huge stone bucket. Into this Pumperdink well all offenders and law
breakers were lowered. Its waters were dark blue and as the color stuck
to one for several days the inhabitants of Pumperdink were careful to
behave well, so that the Chief Dipper, who turned the wheel that raised
and lowered the bucket, often had days at a time with nothing to do.
This time he spent in writing poetry, and as Prince Pompadore took the
place of honor at the head of the table the Chief Dipper rose from his
humble place at the foot and with a moist flourish burst forth:

  “Oh, Pompadore of Pumperdink,
  Of all perfection you’re the pink;
      Your praises now I utter!
  Your eyes are clear as apple sauce,
  Your head the best I’ve come across;
      Your heart is soft as butter.”

“Very good,” said the King, and the Chief Dipper sat down, blushing with
pride and confusion. Prince Pompadore bowed and the rest of the party
clapped tremendously.

“Sounds like a dipper full of nonsense to me,” wheezed Kabumpo, who
stood directly back of Prince Pompadore’s throne, leisurely consuming a
bale of hay placed on the floor beside him. It may surprise you to know
that all the animals in Oz can talk, but such is the case, and
Pumperdink being in the fairy country of Oz, Kabumpo could talk as well
as any man and better than most.

“Eyes like apple sauce—heart of butter! Ho-ho, kerrumph!” The Elegant
Elephant laughed so hard he shook all over; then slyly reaching over the
Prime Pumper’s shoulder, he snatched his glass of pink lemonade and
emptied it down his great throat, setting the tumbler back before the
old fellow turned his head.

“Did you call, Sir?” asked Eejabo, hurrying over. He had mistaken
Kabumpo’s laugh for a command.

“Yes; why did you not give his Excellency lemonade?” demanded the
Elegant Elephant sternly.

“I did; he must have drunk it, Sir!” stuttered Eejabo.

“Drunk it!” cried the Prime Pumper, pounding on the table indignantly.
“I never had any!”

“Fetch him a glass at once,” rumbled Kabumpo, waving his trunk, and
Eejabo, too wise to argue with a member of the royal family, brought
another glass of lemonade. But no sooner had he done so than the
mischievous elephant stole that, next the Prime Pumper’s plate and roll,
and all so quickly, no one but Prince Pompadore knew what was happening
and poor Eejabo was kept running backwards and forwards till his wig
stood on end with confusion and rage.

All of this was very amusing to the Prince, and helped him to listen
pleasantly to the fifteen long birthday speeches addressed to him by
members of the Royal Guard. But if the speeches were dull, the dinner
was not. The fiddlers fiddled so merrily, and the chief cook Hashem had
so outdone himself in the preparation of new and delicious dainties,
that by ice-cream-and-cake time everyone was in a high good humor.

“The cake, my good Eejabo! Fetch forth the cake!” commanded King Pompus,
beaming fondly upon his son. Nervously Eejabo stepped to the side table
and lighted the eighteen tall birthday candles. A cake that had
disappeared once might easily do so again, and Eejabo was anxious to
have it cut and out of the way—out of _his_ way at least.

Hashem, looking through a tiny crack in the door, almost burst with
pride as his gorgeous pink masterpiece was set down before the Prince.

“Many happy returns of your eighteenth birthday!” cried the Courtiers,
jumping to their feet and waving their napkins enthusiastically.

“Thank you! Thank you!” chuckled Pompadore, bowing low. “I feel that
this is but one of many more to come!” Which may sound strange, but
Pumperdink being in Oz, one may have as many eighteenth birthdays as one
cares to have. This was Pompa’s tenth and while the courtiers drank his
health the Prince made ready to blow out the birthday candles.

“That’s right, blow ’em all out at once!” cried the King. So Pompa
puffed out his cheeks and blew with all his might. But not a candle
flickered. Then he tried again. Indeed, he puffed and blew until he was
a regular royal purple, but nary a candle flame so much as wavered.

“Stubbornest candles I ever saw!” blustered King Pompus. Then _he_
puffed out his cheeks and blew like a porpoise; so did Queen Pozy and
the Prime Pumper; so did everybody. They blew until every dish upon the
table skipped and they all sank back exhausted in their chairs, but the
candles burned as merrily as ever.

Then Kabumpo took a hand—or rather a trunk. He had been watching the
proceedings with his twinkling little eyes. Now he took a tremendous
breath, pointed his trunk straight at the cake and blew with all his
strength.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

Every candle went out—but _stars_! As they did, the great pink cake
exploded with such force that half the Courtiers were flung under the
table and the rest knocked unconscious by flying fragments of icing,
tumblers and plates.

“_Treason!_” screamed Pompus, the first to recover from the shock. “Who
dared put gunpowder in the cake?” Brushing the icing from his nose, he
glared around angrily. The first person to catch his eye was Hashem, the
cook, who stood trembling in the doorway.

“_Dip him!_” shouted the King furiously. And the Chief Dipper, only too
glad of an excuse to escape, seized poor Hashem. “_And him!_” ordered
the King, as Eejabo tried to sidle out of the room. “_And them!_” as all
the other footmen started to run. Forming his victims in a line the
Chief Dipper marched them sternly from the banquet hall.

“Oyez! Oyez Everybody shall be dipped!” mumbled the Prime Pumper, feebly
raising his head.

“Oh, no! Oh, no! Nothing of the sort!” snapped the King, fanning poor
Queen Pozy Pink with a plate. She had fainted dead away.

“What is the meaning of this outrage?” shouted Pompus, his anger rising
again.

“How should I know?” wheezed Kabumpo, dragging Prince Pompadore from
beneath the table and pouring a jug of cream over his head.

“Something hit me,” moaned the Prince, opening his eyes.

“Of course it did!” said Kabumpo. “The cake hit you. Made a great hit
with us all—that cake!” The Elegant Elephant looked ruefully at his silk
robe of state, which was hopelessly smeared with icing; then put his
trunk to his head, for something hard had struck him between the eyes.
He felt about the floor and found a round shiny object which he was
about to show the King when Pompus pounced upon a tall scroll sitting
upright in his tumbler. In the confusion of the moment it had escaped
his attention.

“Perhaps this will explain,” spluttered the King, breaking the seal.
Queen Pozy Pink opened her eyes with a sigh, and the Courtiers, crawling
out from beneath the table, looked up anxiously, for everyone was still
dazed from the tremendous explosion. Pompus read the scroll to himself
with popping eyes and then began to dance up and down in a frenzy.

“What is it? What is it?” cried the Queen, trying to read over his
shoulder. Then she gave a well-bred scream and fainted away in the arms
of General Quakes, who had come up behind her.

By this time the Prime Pumper had recovered sufficiently to remember
that reading scrolls and court papers was his business. Somewhat
unsteadily he walked over and took the scroll from the King.

“Oyez! Oyez!” he faltered, pounding on the table.

“Oh, never mind that!” rumbled Kabumpo, flagging his ears. “Let’s hear
what it says!”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“Know ye,” began the old man in a high, shaky voice, “know ye that
unless ye Prince of ye ancient and honorable Kingdom of Pumperdink wed
ye Proper Fairy Princess in ye proper span of time ye Kingdom of
Pumperdink shall disappear forever and _even longer_ from ye Gilliken
country of Oz.
                                                                _J. G._”

“What?” screamed Pompadore, bounding to his feet. “Me? But I don’t
_want_ to marry!”

“You’ll have to,” groaned the King, with a wave at the scroll. The
Courtiers sat staring at one another in dazed disbelief. From the
courtyard came the splash and splutter of the luckless footmen and the
dismal creaking of the stone bucket.

“Oh!” wailed Pompa, throwing up his hands. “This is the worst eighteenth
birthday I’ve ever had. I’ll never have another as long as I live!”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 2
                       Picking a Proper Princess


“What shall we do first?” groaned the King, holding his head with both
hands. “Let me think!”

“Right,” said Kabumpo. “Think by all means.”

So the great hall was cleared and the King, with the mysterious scroll
spread out before him, thought and thought and _thought_. But he did not
make much headway, for, as he explained over and over to Queen Pozy,
who—with Pompadore, the Elegant Elephant and the Prime Pumper—had
remained to help him, “How is one to know where to find the Proper
Princess, and how is one to know the proper time for Pompa to wed her?”

Who was J.G.? How did the scroll get in the cake?

The more the King thought about these questions, the more wrinkled his
forehead became.

“Why! We’re liable to wake up any morning and find ourselves gone,” he
announced gloomily. “How does it feel to disappear, I wonder?”

“I suppose it would give one rather a gone feeling, but I don’t believe
it would hurt—much!” volunteered Kabumpo, glancing uneasily over his
shoulder.

“Perhaps not, but it would not get us anywhere. My idea is to marry the
Prince at once to a Proper Princess,” put in the Prime Pumper, “and
avoid all this disappearing.”

“You’re in a great hurry to marry me off, aren’t you,” said Pompadore
sulkily. “For my part, I don’t want to marry at all!”

“Well, that’s very selfish of you, Pompa,” said the King in a grieved
voice. “Do you want your poor old father to disappear?”

“Not only your poor old father,” choked the Prime Pumper, rolling up his
eyes. “How about me?”

“Oh, you—_you_ can disappear any time you want,” said the Prince
unfeelingly.

“It all started with that wretched cake,” sighed the Queen. “I am
positive the scroll flew out of the cake when it exploded.”

“Of course it did!” cried Pompus. “Let us send for the cook and question
him.”

So Hashem, very wet and blue from his dip, was brought before the King.

“A fine cook you are!” roared Pompus, “mixing gun powder and scrolls in
a birthday cake.”

“But I didn’t,” wailed Hashem, falling on his knees. “Only eggs, your
Highness—very best eggs—sugar, flour, spice and—”

“Bombshells!” cried the King angrily.

“The cake disappeared _before_ the party, your Majesty!” cried Eejabo.

Everyone jumped at the sudden interruption, and Eejabo, who had crept in
unnoticed, stepped before the throne.

“Disappeared,” continued Eejabo hoarsely, dripping blue water all over
the royal rugs. “One minute there it was on the pantry table. Next
minute—_gone!_” croaked Eejabo, flinging up his hands and shrugging his
shoulders.

“Then, before a fellow could turn around, it was back. ’Tweren’t our
fault if magic got mixed into it, and here we have been dipped for
nothing!”

“Well, why didn’t you say so before!” asked the King in exasperation.

“Fine chance I had to say anything!” sniffed Eejabo, wringing out his
lace ruffles.

“Eh—rr—you may have the day off, my good man,” said Pompus, with an
apologetic cough—“And _you_ also,” with a wave at Hashem. Very stiffly
the two walked to the door.

“It’s an off day for us, all right,” said Eejabo ungraciously, and
without so much as a bow the two disappeared.

“I fear you were a bit hasty, my love,” murmured Queen Pozy, looking
after them with a troubled little frown.

“Well, who wouldn’t be!” cried Pompus, ruffling up his hair. “Here we
are liable to disappear any minute and all you do is to stand around and
criticize me. _Begone!_” he puffed angrily, as a page stuck his head in
the door.

“No use shouting at people to begone,” said the Elegant Elephant
testily. “We’ll all begone soon enough.”

At this Queen Pozy began to weep into her silk handkerchief, which sight
so affected Prince Pompadore that he rushed forward and embraced her
tenderly.

“I’ll marry!” cried the Prince impulsively. “I’ll do anything! The
trouble is there aren’t any Fairy Princesses around here!”

“There must be,” said the King.

“There is—There are!” screamed the Prime Pumper, bouncing up suddenly.
“Oyez, Oyez! Has your Majesty forgotten Faleero, royal Princess of
Follensby forest?”

“Why, of course!” The King snapped his fingers joyfully. “Everyone says
Faleero is a Fairy Princess. She must be the proper one!”

“Fa—_leero_!” trumpeted the Elegant Elephant, sitting down with a
terrific thud. “That awful old creature! You ought to be ashamed of
yourself!”

“Silence!” thundered the King.

“Nonsense!” trumpeted Kabumpo. “She’s a thousand years old and as ugly
as a stone Lukoogoo. Don’t you marry her, Pompa.”

“I command him to marry her!” cried the King opening his eyes very wide
and bending forward.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“Faleero?” gasped the Prince, scarcely believing his ears. No wonder
Pompadore was shocked. Faleero, although a Princess in her own right and
of royal fairy descent, was so unattractive that in all her thousand
years of life no one had wished to marry her. She lived in a small hut
in the great forest kingdom next to Pumperdink and did nothing all day
but gather faggots. Her face was long and lean, her hair thin and black
and her nose so large that it made you think of a cauliflower.

“Ugh!” groaned Prince Pompadore, falling back on Kabumpo for support.

“Well, she’s a Princess and a fairy—the only one in any Kingdom. I don’t
see why you want to be so fussy!” said the King fretfully.

“Shall I tell her Royal Highness of the great good fortune that has
befallen her?” asked the Prime Pumper, starting for the door.

“Do so at once,” snapped Pompus. Just then he gave a scream of fright
and pain, for a round shiny object had flown through the air and struck
him on the head. “What was that?”

The Prime Pumper looked suspiciously at the Elegant Elephant. Kabumpo
glared back.

“A—a warning!” stuttered the Prime Pumper, afraid to say that Kabumpo
had flung the offending missile. “A warning, your Majesty!”

“It’s nothing of the kind,” said the King angrily. “You’re getting old,
Pumper and stupid. It’s—why it’s a door knob! Who _dares_ to hit me with
a door knob?”

“It hit me once,” mumbled Kabumpo, shifting uneasily from one foot to
the other three. “How does it strike you?”

“As an outrageous piece of impertinence!” spluttered Pompus, turning as
red as a turkey cock.

“Perhaps it has something to do with the scroll,” suggested Queen Pozy,
taking it from the King. “See! It is gold and all the door knobs in the
palace are ivory. And look! Here are some initials!”

Sure enough! It was gold and in the very centre were the initials P. A.

Just at this interesting juncture the page, who had been poking his head
in the door every few minutes, gathered his courage together and rushed
up to the King.

“Pardon, Most High Highness, but General Quakes bade me say that this
mirror was found under the window,” stuttered the page, and before
Pompus had an opportunity to cry “Begone!” or “Dip him!” the little
fellow made a dash for the door and disappeared.

“It grows more puzzling every minute,” wailed the King, looking from the
door knob to the mirror and from the mirror to the scroll.

“If you take my advice you’ll have this marriage performed at once,”
said the Prime Pumper in a trembling voice.

“I believe I will!” sighed Pompus, rubbing the bump on his head. “Go and
fetch the Princess Faleero and you, Pompa, prepare for your wedding.”

“But Father!” began the Prince.

“Not another word or you’ll be dipped!” rumbled the King of Pumperdink.
“I’m not going to have my kingdom disappearing if I can help it!”

“You mean if _I_ can help it,” muttered Pompadore gloomily.

“This is ridiculous!” stormed the Elegant Elephant, as the Prime Pumper
rushed importantly out of the room. “Don’t you know that this country of
ours is only a small part of the great Kingdom of Oz? There must be
hundreds of Princesses for Pompadore to choose from. Why should he not
wed Ozma, the princess of us all? Haven’t you read any Oz history? Have
you never heard of the wonderful Emerald City? Let Pompadore start out
at once. I, myself, will accompany him, and if Ozma refuses to marry
him—well”—the Elegant Elephant drew himself up—“I will carry her
off—that’s all!”

“It’s a long way to the Emerald City,” mused Queen Pozy, “but still—”

“Yes, and what is to become of us in the meantime pray? While you are
wandering all over Oz we can disappear I suppose! No Sir! Not one step
do you go out of Pumperdink. Faleero is the Proper Princess and
Pompadore shall marry her!” said Pompus.

“You’re talking through your crown,” wheezed Kabumpo. “How about the
door knob and mirror? They came out of the cake as well as the scroll.
What are you going to do about them? Let’s have a look at that mirror.”

“Just a common gold mirror,” fumed Pompus, holding it up for the Elegant
Elephant to see.

“What’s the matter?” as Kabumpo gave a snort.

On the face of the mirror, as Kabumpo looked in, two words appeared:

                           Elegant Elephant.

And when Pompus snatched the mirror, above his reflection stood the
words:

                             Fat Old King.

Then Queen Pozy peeped into the mirror, which promptly flashed:

                             Lovely Queen.

“Why, it’s telling the truth!” screamed Pompa, looking over his mother’s
shoulder. At this the words “Charming Prince” formed quickly in the
glass.

The Prince grinned at his father, who was now quite beside himself with
rage.

“You think I’m fat and old, do you!” snorted the King, flinging the gold
mirror face down on the table. “This is a nice day, I must say! Scrolls,
door knobs, mirrors and insults!”

“But what can P. A. stand for?” mused Queen Pozy thoughtfully.

“Plain enough,” chuckled Kabumpo, maliciously. “It stands for perfectly
awful!”

“Who’s perfectly awful?” asked Pompus suspiciously.

“Why, Faleero,” sniffed the Elegant Elephant. “That’s plain enough to
everybody!”

“Dip him!” shrieked Pompus. “I’ve had enough of this! _Dip him_—do you
hear?”

“That,” yawned Kabumpo, straightening his silk robe, “is impossible!”
And, considering his size it was. But just that minute the Prime Pumper
returned and in his interest to hear what the Princess Faleero had said
the King forgot about dipping Kabumpo.

The courier from the Princess stepped forward.

“Her Highness,” puffed the Prime Pumper, who had run all the way, “Her
Highness accepts Prince Pompadore with pleasure and will marry him
to-morrow morning.”

Prince Pompadore gave a dismal groan.

“Fine!” cried the King, rubbing his hands together. “Let everything be
made ready for the ceremony, and in the meantime”—Pompus glared about
fiercely—“I forbid anyone’s disappearing. I am still the King! Set a
guard around the castle, Pumper, to watch for any signs of
disappearance, and if so much as a fence paling disappears”—he drew
himself up—“notify me _at once_!” Then turning to the throne Pompus gave
his arm to Queen Pozy and together they started for the garden.

“Do you mean to say you are going to pay no attention to the mirror or
door knob?” cried Kabumpo, planting himself in the King’s path.

“Go away,” said Pompus crossly.

“Oyez! Oyez! Way for their Majesties!” cried the Prime Pumper, running
ahead with his silver staff, and the royal couple swept out of the
banquet hall.

“Never mind, Kabumpo,” said the Prince, flinging his arm affectionately
around the Elegant Elephant’s trunk, “I dare say Faleero has her good
points—and we cannot let the old Kingdom disappear, you know!”

[Illustration: “Flinging his arms affectionately around the Elegant
Elephant’s trunk”]

“Fiddlesticks!” choked Kabumpo. “She’ll make a door mat of you,
Pompa—Prince Pompadormat—that’s what you’ll be! Let’s run away!” he
proposed, his little eyes twinkling anxiously.

“I couldn’t do that and let the Kingdom disappear, it wouldn’t be
right,” sighed the Prince, and sadly he followed his parents into the
royal gardens.

“The King’s a Gooch!” gulped the Elegant Elephant unhappily. Then, all
at once he flung up his trunk. “Somebody’s going to disappear around
here,” he wheezed darkly, “that’s certain!” With a mighty rustling of
his silk robe, Kabumpo hurried off to his own royal quarters in the
palace.

Left alone, Prince Pompa threw himself down at the foot of the throne,
and gazed sadly into space.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 3
                      Kabumpo and Pompa Disappear


Once in his own apartment, Kabumpo pulled the bell rope furiously.

“My pearls and my purple plush robe! Bring them at once!” he puffed when
his personal attendant appeared in the doorway.

“Yes, Sir! Are you going out, Sir?” murmured the little Pumperdinkian,
hastening to a great chest in the corner of the big marble room, to get
out of the robe.

“Not unless disappearing is going out,” said Kabumpo more mildly, for he
was quite fond of this little man who waited on him. “But I’m liable to
disappear any minute. So are you. So is everybody, and I, for my part,
wish to do the thing well and disappear with as much elegance as
possible. Have you heard about the magic scroll, Spezzle?”

“Yes, Sir!” quavered Spezzle, mounting a ladder to adjust the Elegant
Elephant’s pearls and gorgeous robe of state. “Yes, Sir, and my head’s
going round and round like—”

“Like what?” asked Kabumpo, looking approvingly at his reflection in the
long mirror.

“I can’t rightly say, Sir,” sighed Spezzle. “This disappearing has me
that mixed up I don’t know what I’m doing.”

“Well, don’t start by losing your head,” chuckled Kabumpo. “There—that
will do very well.” He lifted the little man down from the ladder.

“Good-bye, Spezzle. If you should disappear before I should see you
again, try to do it in style.”

“Yes, Sir!” gulped Spezzle. Then taking out a bright red handkerchief he
blew his nose violently and rushed out of the room.

Kabumpo walked up and down before the mirror, surveying himself from all
angles. A very gorgeous appearance he presented, in his purple plush
robe of state, all embroidered in silver, and his head bands of shining
pearls. In the left side of his robe there was a deep pocket. Into this
the Elegant Elephant slipped all the jewels he possessed, taking them
from a drawer in the chest.

“I must get that gold door knob,” he rumbled thoughtfully. “And the
mirror.” Noiselessly (for all his tremendous size, Kabumpo could move
without a sound) he made his way back to the banquet hall and loomed up
suddenly behind the Prime Pumper. The old fellow was staring with
popping eyes into the gold mirror.

“Ho, Ho!” roared Kabumpo. “Ho, Ho! Kerumph!”

No wonder! Above the shocked reflection of the foolish statesman stood
the words “Old Goose!”

“A truthful mirror, indeed,” wheezed the Elegant Elephant.

“Heh? What?” stuttered the Prime Pumper, slapping the mirror down on the
table in a hurry. “Where’d you come from? What are you all dressed up
for?”

“For my disappearance,” said Kabumpo, sweeping the door knob and mirror
into his pocket. “I’m getting ready to disappear. How do I look?”

Before the Prime Pumper had time to answer, the Elegant Elephant was
gone.

Back in his own room, Kabumpo paced impatiently up and down, waiting for
night. “I do not see how she could refuse us,” he mumbled every now and
then to himself.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

That was an anxious afternoon and evening in the palace of Pumperdink.
Every few minutes the Courtiers felt themselves nervously to see if they
were still there. The servants went about on tip-toe, looking fearfully
over their shoulders for the first signs of disappearance. As it grew
darker the gates and windows were securely barred and not a candle was
lighted. “The less the castle shows, the less likely it is to
disappear,” reasoned the King.

The darkness suited Kabumpo. He waited until everyone in the palace had
retired, and a full hour longer. Then he stepped softly down the passage
to the Prince’s apartment. Pompadore, without undressing had flung
himself upon a couch and fallen into an uneasy slumber.

Without making a sound, Kabumpo took the Prince’s crown from a dressing
cabinet, slipped it carefully into the pocket of his robe, and then
carefully lifted the sleeping Prince in his curling trunk and started
cautiously down the great hall. Setting him gently on the floor as he
reached the palace doors, he pushed back the golden bolts and stepped
out into the garden.

The voices of the watchmen calling to each other from the great wall
came faintly through the darkness, but the Elegant Elephant hurried to a
secret unguarded entrance known only to himself and Pompadore and passed
like a great shadow through the swinging gates. Once outside, he swung
the sleeping Prince to his broad back and ran swiftly and silently
through the night.

“What are we doing?” murmured the Prince drowsily in his sleep.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“Disappearing,” chuckled Kabumpo under his breath. “Disappearing from
Pumperdink, my lad.”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 4
                      The Curious Cottabus Appears


“Ouch!” Prince Pompadore stirred uneasily and rolled over. “Ouch!” he
groaned again, giving his pillow a fretful thump. “Ouch!” This time his
eyes flew wide open, for his knuckles were tingling with pain.

“A rock!” gasped the Prince, sitting up indignantly. “A rock under my
head! No wonder it aches! Great Gillikens! Where am I?” He stared about
wildly. There was not a familiar object in sight. Indeed he was in a
dim, deep forest, and from the distance came the sound of someone sawing
wood.

“Oh! Oh! I know!” muttered the Prince, rubbing his head miserably. “It’s
that wretched scroll. I’ve disappeared and this is the place I’ve
disappeared to.” Stiffly he got to his feet and started to walk in the
direction of the sawing, but had only gone a few steps before he gave a
cry of joy, for there, leaning up against a tree, snoring like twenty
wood-cutters at work, was Kabumpo.

“Wake up!” cried Pompadore, pounding him with all his might. “Wake up,
Kabumpo. We’ve disappeared!”

“Have we?” yawned the Elegant Elephant, opening one eye. “You don’t say?
Hah, Hoh, Hum!” With a tremendous yawn he opened the other eye and began
to chuckle and shake all over.

“We stole a march on ’em, Pompa. I’d like to see the King’s face when he
finds us gone. Old Pumper will be Oyezing all over the palace. He’ll
think we’ve disappeared by magic.”

“Well, didn’t we?” asked Pompadore in amazement.

“Not unless you call _me_ magic. I carried you off in the night. Did you
suppose old Kabumpo was going to stand quietly by while they married you
to a faggotty old fairy like Faleero? Not much,” wheezed the Elegant
Elephant. “I have other plans for you, little one!”

“But this is terrible!” cried the Prince, catching hold of a tree. “Here
you have left my poor old father, my lovely mother, and the whole
Kingdom of Pumperdink to disappear. We’ll have to go right straight
back—right straight back to Pumperdink. Do you hear?”

“Do have a little sense!” Kabumpo shook himself crossly. “You can’t save
them by going back. The thing to do is to go forward, find the Proper
Princess and marry her. No scroll magic takes effect for seven days,
anyway!”

“How do you know?” asked Pompa anxiously.

“Read it in a witch book,” answered Kabumpo promptly. “Now, that gives
us plenty of time to go to the Emerald City and present ourselves to the
lovely ruler of Oz. There’s a Proper Princess for you, Pompa!”

“But suppose she refuses me,” said the Prince uncertainly.

“You’re very handsome, Pompa, my boy.” The Elegant Elephant gave the
Prince a playful poke with his trunk. “I’ve brought all my jewels as
gifts and the magic mirror and door knob as well. If she refuses you and
the worst comes to the worst”—Kabumpo cleared his throat
gravely—“well—just leave it to me!”

After a bit more coaxing and after eating the breakfast Kabumpo had
thoughtfully brought along, Pompa allowed the Elegant Elephant to lift
him on his head and off they set at Kabumpo’s best speed for the Emerald
City of Oz.

Neither the Prince nor the Elegant Elephant had ever been out of
Pumperdink, but Kabumpo had found an old map of Oz in the palace
library. According to this map, the Emerald City lay directly to the
South of their own country. “So all we have to do is to keep going
South,” chuckled Kabumpo softly. Pompadore nodded, but he was trying to
recall the exact words of the mysterious scroll:

“Know Ye, that unless ye Prince of ye ancient and honorable Kingdom of
Pumperdink shall wed ye Proper Fairy Princess in ye proper span of time
ye Kingdom of Pumperdink shall disappear forever and even longer from ye
Gilliken Country of Oz. _J. G._”

Pompadore repeated the words solemnly; then fell a-thinking of all he
had heard of Ozma of Oz, the loveliest little fairy imaginable.

“She wouldn’t want one of her Kingdom to disappear,” reflected Pompadore
sagely. Now, as it happened, Ozma did not even know of the existence of
Pumperdink. Oz is so large and inhabited by so many strange and singular
peoples that although fourteen books of history have been written about
it, only half the story has been told. There are no Oz railway or
steamship lines and traveling is tedious and slow, owing to the magic
nature of the land itself, its many mountains and fairy forests, so that
Pumperdink, like many of the small Kingdoms on the outskirts of Oz, has
never been explored by Ozma.

Oz itself is a huge oblong country divided into four parts, the North
being the purple Gilliken country, the East the blue Munchkin country,
the South the red lands of the Quadlings, and the West the pleasant
yellow country of the Winkies. In the very center of Oz, as almost every
boy and girl knows, is the wonderful Emerald City, and in its gorgeous
green palace lives Ozma, the lovely little Fairy Princess, whom Kabumpo
wanted Pompadore to marry.

“Do you know,” mused the Prince, after they had traveled some time
through the dim forest, “I believe that gold mirror has a lot to do with
all this. I believe it was put in the cake to help me find the Proper
Princess.”

“Where would you find a more Proper Princess than Ozma?” puffed Kabumpo
indignantly. “Ozma is the one—depend upon it!”

“Just the same,” said Pompa firmly, “I’m going to try every Princess we
meet!”

“Do you expect to find ’em running wild in the woods?” snorted Kabumpo,
who didn’t like to be contradicted.

“You never can tell.” The Prince of Pumperdink settled back comfortably.
Now that they were really started, he was finding traveling extremely
interesting. “I should have done this long ago,” murmured the Prince to
himself. “Every Prince should go on a journey of adventure.”

“How long will it take us to reach the Emerald City?” he asked
presently.

“Two days, if nothing happens,” answered Kabumpo. “Say—what’s that?” He
stopped short and spread his ears till they looked like sails. The
underbrush at the right was crackling from the springs of some large
animal, and next minute a hoarse voice roared:

  “I want to know
    The which and what,
  The where and how and why?
    A curious, luxurious
  Old Cottabus am I!

  I want to know the
    When and who,
  The whatfor and whyso, Sir!
    So please attend, there is no end
  To things I want to know, Sir!”

“Aha!” exulted the voice triumphantly. “There you are!” And a great
round head was thrust out, almost in Kabumpo’s face. “Oh! I’m going to
enjoy this. Don’t move!”

Kabumpo was too astonished to move, and the next instant the Cottabus
had flounced out of the bushes and settled itself directly in front of
the two travelers. It was large as a pony, but shaped like a great
overfed cat. Its eyes bulged unpleasantly and the end of its tail ended
in a large fan.

[Illustration: The Cottabus was as large as a pony, but shaped like a
great overfed cat]

“Well,” grunted Kabumpo after the strange creature had regarded them for
a full minute without blinking.

“Well, what?” it asked, beginning to fan itself sulkily. “You act as if
you had never seen a Cottabus before.”

“We never have,” admitted Pompa, peering over Kabumpo’s head and
secretly wishing he had brought along his jeweled sword.

“Why haven’t you?” asked the Cottabus, rolling up its eyes. “How
frightfully ignorant!” It closed its fan tail with a snap and looked up
at them disapprovingly. “Will you kindly tell me who you are, where you
came from, when you came, what you are going for, how you are going to
get it, why you are going and what you are going to do when you do get
it!”

“I don’t see why we should tell you all that,” grumbled Kabumpo. “It's
none of your affair.”

“Wrong!” shrieked the creature hysterically. “It is the business of a
Cottabus to find out everything. I live on other people’s affairs, and
unless”—here it paused, took a large handkerchief out of a pocket in its
fur and began to wipe its eyes—“unless a Cottabus asks fifty questions a
day it curls up in its porch rocker and d-d-dies, and this is my fifth
questionless day.”

“Curl up and die, then,” said Kabumpo gruffly. But the kind-hearted
Prince felt sorry for the foolish creature.

“If we answer your questions, will you answer ours?”

“I’ll try,” sniffed the Curious Cottabus, and leaning over it dragged a
rocking chair out of the bushes and seated itself comfortably.

“Well, then,” began Pompa, “this is the Elegant Elephant and I am a
Prince. We came from Pumperdink because our Kingdom was threatened with
disappearance unless I marry a Proper Princess.”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“Yes,” murmured the Cottabus, rocking violently. “Yes, yes!”

“And we are going to the Emerald City to ask Princess Ozma for her
hand,” continued the Prince.

“How do you know she is the one? When did this happen? Who brought the
message? What are you going to do if Ozma refuses you?” asked the
Cottabus, leaning forward breathlessly.

“Are you going to stand talking to this ridiculous creature all day?”
grumbled Kabumpo. But Pompadore, perhaps because he was so young, felt
flattered that even a curious old Cottabus should take such an interest
in his affairs. So beginning at the very beginning he told the whole
story of his birthday party.

“Yes, yes,” gulped the Cottabus wildly each time the Prince paused for
breath. “Yes, yes,” fluttering its fan excitedly. When Pompadore had
finished the Cottabus leaned back, closed its eyes and put both paws on
the arms of the rocker. “I never heard anything more curious in my
life,” said the curious one. “This will keep me amused for three days!”

“Of course—that’s what we’re here for—to amuse you!” said Kabumpo
scornfully. “Let's be going, Pompa!”

“Perhaps the Curious Cottabus can tell us something of the country
ahead. Are there any Princesses living ’round here?” the Prince asked
eagerly.

“Never heard of any,” said the Cottabus, opening its eyes. “Can you
multiply—add—divide and subtract? Are you good at fractions, Prince?”

“Not very,” admitted Pompadore, looking mystified.

“Then you won’t make much headway,” sighed the Cottabus, shaking its
head solemnly. “Now, don’t ask me why,” it added lugubriously, dragging
its rocker back into the brush, and while Kabumpo and Pompa stared in
amazement it wriggled away into the bushes.

“Come on,” cried Kabumpo with a contemptuous grunt, but he had only gone
a few steps when the Curious Cottabus stuck its head out of an opening
in the trees just ahead. “When are you coming back?” it asked, twitching
its nose anxiously.

“Never!” trumpeted Kabumpo, increasing his speed. Again the Cottabus
disappeared, only to reappear at the first turn in the road.

“Did you say the door knob hit you on the head?” it asked pleadingly.

Kabumpo gave a snort of anger and rushed along so fast that Pompa had to
hang on for dear life.

“Guess we’ve left him behind this time,” spluttered the Elegant
Elephant, after he had run almost a mile.

But at that minute there was a wheeze from the underbrush and the head
of the Cottabus was thrust out. Its tongue was hanging out and it was
panting with exhaustion. “How old are you?” it gasped rolling its eyes
pitifully. “Who was your grandfather on your father’s side, and was he
bald?”

“Kerumberty Bumpus!” raged the Elegant Elephant, flouncing to the other
side of the road.

“But why was the door knob in the cake?” gulped the Cottabus, two tears
trickling off its nose.

“How should we know,” said Pompa coldly.

“Then just tell me the date of your birth,” wailed the Cottabus, two
tears trickling off its nose.

“No! No!” screamed Kabumpo, and this time he ran so fast that the
tearful voice of the Cottabus became fainter and fainter and finally
died away altogether.

“Provokingest creature I’ve ever met,” grumbled the Elegant Elephant,
and this time Pompa agreed with him.

“Isn’t it almost lunch time?” asked the Prince. He was beginning to feel
terribly hungry.

“And aren’t there any villages or cities between here and the Emerald
City?” Pompa spoke again.

“Don’t know,” wheezed Kabumpo, swinging ahead.

“Oh! There’s a flag!” cried Pompa suddenly. “It’s flying above the tree
tops just ahead.”

And so it was—a huge, flapping black flag covered with hundreds of
figures and signs.

“Hurry up, Kabumpo,” urged the Prince. “This looks interesting.”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 5
                    In The City of The Figure Heads


“It reminds me of something disagreeable,” answered Kabumpo, as he eyed
the flag. Nevertheless he quickened his steps and in a moment they came
to a clearing in the forest, surrounded by a tall black picket fence.
The only thing visible above the fence was the strange black flag, and
as the forest on either side was too dense to penetrate and there seemed
to be no way around, Kabumpo thumped loudly on the center gate.

It was flung open at once, so suddenly that Kabumpo, who had his head
pressed against the bars, fell on his knees and shot Pompadore clear
over his head. Altogether it was a very undignified entrance.

“Oh! Oh! Now we shall have some fun!” screamed a high, thin voice, and
immediately the cry was taken up by hundreds of other voices. A perfect
swarm of strange creatures surrounded the two travelers. The Elegant
Elephant took one look, put back his ears and snatched Pompa from the
paving stones.

“Stop that!” he rumbled threateningly. “Who are you anyway?” The crowd
paid no attention to the Elegant Elephant’s question, but continued to
dance up and down and scream with glee. Clutching Kabumpo’s ear, Pompa
peered down with many misgivings. They were entirely surrounded by thin,
spry little people, who had figures instead of heads, and the fours,
eights, sevens and ciphers bobbing up and down made it terribly
confusing.

“Let’s go!” said Pompa, who was growing dizzier every minute. But the
Figure Heads were wedged so closely around them Kabumpo could not move
and they were shouting so lustily that the Elegant Elephant’s voice was
drowned in the hubbub. Finally, Kabumpo’s eyes began to snap angrily
and, taking a deep breath, he threw up his trunk and trumpeted like
fifty ferry-boat whistles. The effect was immediate and astonishing.
Half of the Figure Heads fell on their faces, and the other half fell on
their backs and stared vacantly up at the sky.

“Conduct us to your Ruler!” roared Kabumpo, in the dead silence that
followed.

“How’d you know we had a Ruler?” asked a Seven, getting cautiously to
its feet.

“Most countries have,” said the Elegant Elephant shortly.

“He’s got no right to order us around,” said a Six, sitting up and
jerking its thumb at Kabumpo.

“Yes—but!” Seven frowned at Six and put his hands over his ears. “This
way,” he said gruffly, and Kabumpo, stepping carefully, for many of the
Figure Heads were still on their backs, followed Seven.

If the inhabitants of this strange city were queer, their city was even
more so. The air was dry and choky and the houses were dull, oblong
affairs, set in rows and rows with never a garden in sight. Each street
had a large signpost on the corner, but they were not like the signs one
usually sees in cities. For these were _plus_ and _minus_ signs with
here and there a _long division_ sign.

“I suppose everything in this street’s divided up,” mumbled Pompadore,
looking up at a division sign curiously.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“Hope they don’t subtract any of our belongings,” whispered Kabumpo, as
they turned into Minus Alley. “Look, Pompa, at the houses. Ever see
anything like ’em before?”

“They remind me of something disagreeable,” mused the Prince. “Why,
they’re _books_, Kabumpo, great big arithmetic books!” Pompa pointed at
one.

“You mean they are shaped like books,” said the Elegant Elephant. “I
never saw books with windows and doors!”

“A lot you know!” said Seven, looking back scornfully, but Kabumpo was
too interested to care. Out of the windows of the big book houses leaped
hundreds of the little Figure Heads, and they laughed and jeered at
Pompa and Kabumpo.

“Ho! Ho!” yelled one, leaning out so far it nearly fell on its Eight.
“Wait till the Count sees ’em. He’ll make an example of ’em!”

“What an awful country,” whispered Pompadore, ducking just in time, as a
Four snatched at his hair from an open window. But just then they turned
a corner and entered a large gloomy court. Sitting on a square and solid
wood throne, surrounded by a guard of Figure Heads, sat the Giant Ruler
of this strange city.

“What have you got there, Seven?” roared the Ruler.

“I am the Elegant Elephant and this is the Prince of Pumperdink,”
announced Kabumpo before Seven could answer. Pompadore, himself, could
say nothing for he had never before been addressed by a wooden Ruler in
his life. And that is exactly what the King of the Figure Heads was—an
ordinary school ruler, twice as large as a man, with arms and legs and a
great square head set atop of his thin flat body.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“I don’t care a rap _who_ you are. I want to know _what_ you are?” said
the Ruler.

“We are travelers,” spoke up Pompa, swallowing hard—“travelers in search
of a Proper Princess.”

“Well, you won’t find any here,” grunted the Ruler shortly. “We don’t
believe in ’em!”

“Would you mind telling me the name of your Kingdom,” asked Pompa,
somewhat cast down by these words.

“You have no heads,” announced the Ruler calmly, “or you would have
known that this is Rith Metic. _I_,” he hammered himself upon the wooden
chest—“I am its Ruler and every inch a King—King of the Figure Heads,”
he added, glaring around as if he expected someone to contradict him.

“All right! All right!” wheezed Kabumpo, bowing his head twice. “I knew
twelve inches made a foot rule, but I never knew they made a King Rule.
But could you give us some luncheon and allow us to pass peaceably
through your Kingdom?”

“Pass through!” exclaimed the King, standing up indignantly. “We don’t
pass anyone through here. You’ve got to work your way through. Pass
through, indeed! And when you’ve worked your way through we’ll put you
in a problem and make an example of you.”

“They’ll make a very good example, your Majesty,” said a tall thin
individual standing next to the Ruler. He eyed the two cunningly. “If a
thin Prince sets out on a fat elephant to find a Proper Princess, how
many yards of fringe will the elephant lose from his robe and how bald
will the Prince be at the end of the journey? I don’t believe anyone
could figure that out,” he murmured gleefully.

“It might be done by subtraction,” said the King, looking at the two
critically.

“Great hay stacks!” rumbled Kabumpo, glaring over his shoulder to see if
he had lost any fringe so far. “What have we gotten into?”

“Bald!” gulped Pompa, rubbing his head. “Do you mean to say you take
poor innocent travelers and make them into arithmetic problems?”

“Why not?” said the thin one, who looked exactly like a giant lead
pencil. “And please address me as Count, after this—Count It Up is my
name. What’s the matter with living in a problem, my boy? Life is a
problem, after all, and you will get used to it in time. I’ll try to
assign you to a comfortable book and you’ll find book-keeping a lot more
simple than house-keeping. This way, please!”

“Please go,” yawned the Ruler, waving his hand. “The Count will take you
in charge now.” And so dazed was the Elegant Elephant by all this
strange reasoning that he tamely followed the lead pencil person.

“Good-bye!” shouted the Ruler hoarsely. “Start them on simple
additions,” he said as they moved off.

The street ahead was filled with Figure Heads and as Kabumpo paused they
began forming themselves into sums. The first row sat down, the next
knelt behind them, the third stood up, the fourth nimbly leaped upon the
shoulders of the third, and so on, until a long addition confronted the
travelers.

“Now,” said Count It Up in his blunt way, “as you haven’t figures for
heads, let us see if you have heads for figures.” Kabumpo pushed back
his pearl headdress and drops of perspiration began to run down his
trunk. Prince Pompa, lying flat on Kabumpo’s head, started to add up the
first line of figures.

“Eighty-three,” he announced anxiously.

“Say three and eight to carry,” snapped Count It Up. “Here, Three!” A
Three stepped out of the crowd and placed itself under the line. “I’ve
got to be carried!” cried Eight, looking sulkily at Pompa.

“Carried!” snorted Kabumpo, snatching Eight into the air. “Well, I’ll
attend to you. You do the adding, Pompa, and I’ll do the carrying.”

He landed the Eight head down at the bottom of the line of Figure Heads
and swung his trunk carelessly while he waited for his next victim. So,
slowly and painfully, Pompa counted up the long lines and Kabumpo
carried and if they made the slightest mistake the Figure Heads shouted
with scorn and danced about till the confusion was terrible. When an
example was finished, the Figure Heads in it marched away but another
would immediately form lines ahead so that it took them a whole hour to
go two blocks.

[Illustration: Slowly and Painfully Pompa Counted up the Long Lines]

“Oh!” groaned Pompa at last, “We’ll never get through this, Kabumpo.
Look at those awful fractions ahead! Can’t I skip fractions?” he asked
looking pleadingly at Count It Up.

“Certainly not!” said the pencilly man stroking his shiny hair, which
was straight and black and grew up into a sharp point. “You shall skip
nothing!”

“That gives me an idea,” whispered Kabumpo huskily. “Why shouldn’t we
skip altogether? We’re bigger than they are. Why—”

“How are you getting on?” At the sound of that hoarse, familiar voice
both the Prince and Kabumpo jumped.

“You don’t mind me asking, I hope?” Clinging to the high picket fence
and looking anxiously through the bars was the Curious Cottabus.

“Have you found the Greatest Common Divisor yet?”

“Who’s he?” asked the Elegant Elephant suspiciously.

“Isn’t there any way out of Rith Metic but this?” wailed Pompa, looking
at the Cottabus pleadingly. He was too tired to mind being questioned.

The curious beast was delighted to have this new opportunity to talk to
the travelers.

“Will you answer a few questions if I tell you?” asked the Cottabus,
raising itself with great difficulty and looking over the palings.

“Yes—yes—anything,” promised Pompa.

“Do you care for strawberry tarts?” asked the Cottabus, twitching its
nose very rapidly.

“Of course,” said the Prince. “Oh! Do hurry. Count It Up will be back in
a moment!” He had run ahead to arrange a new problem and the rest of the
Figure Heads paid no attention to the queer creature clinging to the
palings.

“Are you going to invite the Scarecrow to your wedding?” gulped the
Cottabus.

“I don’t know any Scarecrow,” said Pompa, “so how could I?”

“Are you fond of that old elephant?” The Cottabus waved at Kabumpo, who
stamped first one foot then another and fairly snorted with rage.

“All right,” sighed the Curious Cottabus, “that makes my fifty
questions.”

Hanging on to the fence with one paw it waved the other backward and
forward as it chanted:

  “How many tics in Rith Metic?
  Tell me that and tell me quick!
  But if you can’t it’s not my fault,
  So simply turn a wintersault!”

The head of the Cottabus disappeared.

“Now isn’t that provoking,” gulped the Prince. “After it promised to
help us, too!”

“I meant summersault,” wheezed the Cottabus, reappearing suddenly—

  “And if you can’t it’s not your fault,
  So simply turn a summersault!”

it recited dolefully, and losing its balance fell off the fence and
landed with a thud on the ground below.

“Here! Hurry along!” scolded Count It Up, prodding Kabumpo with a sharp
pencil. “The next is a nice little problem in fractions.”

“I wonder if it meant anything?” mused Pompadore, as Kabumpo approached
the new problem. “’If you can’t its not your fault, so simply turn a
summersault.’ Anyway it wouldn’t hurt to try. Stop a minute, Kabumpo!”

Sliding down the Elegant Elephant’s trunk, the Prince put his head on
the ground and very carefully and deliberately turned a somersault. At
his first motion Count It Up gave a deafening scream, fell on his head
and broke off his point, while the Figure Heads began to run in every
direction.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“Do it again! Do it again!” cried Kabumpo joyfully. So Pompa turned
another somersault and another, and another, and _another_, till not a
Figure Head was in sight. Even the Figure Heads at the windows of the
houses tumbled out and dashed madly around the corner. Before they could
return, Kabumpo snatched up Pompa and tore through the deserted streets
of Rith Metic till he came to the black iron gate at the other end of
the city. Butting it open with his head, the Elegant Elephant dashed
through and never stopped running till he was miles away from there.

“Have to rest a bit and eat some leaves,” puffed Kabumpo, at last
slowing down. “Whe—w!”

“Wish I could eat leaves,” sighed the Prince, as Kabumpo began lunching
off the tree tops. “But, never mind, we’re out of Rith Metic! Wasn’t it
lucky that Cottabus followed us? I never would have thought of getting
out of sums by somersaulting. Would you?”

“Only sensible thing it ever said, probably,” answered the Elegant
Elephant, with his mouth full of leaves. “There’s a lot more to be
learned by traveling than by studying, my boy. Somersaults for
sums—let’s always remember that!”

Pompa did not answer. He slid down Kabumpo’s trunk and began hunting
anxiously around for something to eat. Not far away he found a large nut
tree and, gathering a handful of nuts, he sat down and began to crack
them on a white marble slab near by. Next instant Kabumpo heard a thud
and a muffled cry.

The Prince of Pumperdink had vanished, as if by magic.

“Where are you?” screamed the Elegant Elephant, pounding through the
brush. “Pompa! Pompa! He’s disappeared,” gasped Kabumpo, rushing over to
the marble slab. There was not a sign of the Royal Prince of Pumperdink
anywhere, but carved carefully on the white stone were these words:

                    Please Knock Before You Fall In.

“Fall in!” snorted Kabumpo, his eyes rolling wildly. “Great Gooch!”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 6
                     Ruggedo’s History In Six Rocks


On the same night that Prince Pompa and Kabumpo had disappeared from
Pumperdink, a little gray gnome crouched in a deep chamber, tunneled
under the Emerald City, laboriously carving letters on a big rock. It
was Ruggedo, the old Gnome King, carving and grumbling and grumbling and
carving, and pausing every few minutes to light his pipe with a hot coal
which he kept in his pocket for that purpose. A big emerald lamp cast a
green glow over the strange cavern and made the gnome look like a bad
green goblin, which he was.

“Wag!” screamed the gnome, suddenly throwing down his chisel. “Where are
you, you long-eared villain?” There was a slight stir at the back of the
cave and a rabbit, of about the same size as the gnome, shuffled slowly
forward.

“What you want?” he asked, rubbing one eye with his paw.

“Bring me a cup of melted mud, idiot!” roared the gnome, pounding on the
rock. “And serve it to me on my throne at once!”

“Now, see here,” the rabbit twitched his nose rapidly, “I’ll get you a
cup of melted mud, but don’t you call me an idiot. I don’t mind working
for one, nor digging for one and listening to his foolishness, but
nobody can call me an idiot—not even a make-believe King!”

“Oh, you make me tired!” fumed the gnome.

“Then go to sleep,” advised the rabbit with a yawn. “What’s the use of
trying to pretend you’re a King, Rug? Ho, ho! King over one wooden doll,
six rocks and twenty-seven sofa cushions! You may have been a King once,
but now you’re just a plain gnome and nothing else, and if you go and
sit quietly in your plain rocking chair I’ll bring you a cup of plain
mud.”

With a chuckle, the rabbit retired, and Ruggedo, spluttering with fury,
flounced into a doll’s broken rocker that was set in the exact center of
the cave.

“Here I give that rabbit everything I steal and he won’t even allow me
the little luxury of calling him an idiot or of pulling his ears. How
can I pretend to be a King without an ear to pull?” grumbled the gnome.

“What are you grinning at?” Bouncing out of his chair, Ruggedo flew at a
merry-faced wooden doll who sat propped up against the wall and shook
her till her head turned round backwards and her arms and legs flew
every which way. Then he hurled her violently into a corner. Quite out
of breath he sank back in his chair and stared angrily about.

When Wag returned the gnome snatched the tin cup of melted mud and
tossed it down with one gulp. Then, flinging the cup at the doll, he
went back to work.

The rabbit shook his head mournfully and, picking up the wooden doll,
straightened her out and placed her on a cushion. Then, yawning again,
he lit a candle and started for the passage at the back of the cave.

“How are you getting on?” he asked, pausing to look over the gnome’s
shoulder with a grin.

“Fine!” answered Ruggedo, forgetting to scowl. “I’m up to the sixth rock
and expect to finish to-night.”

“Who do you think will read it?” asked the rabbit, putting back both
ears and stroking his whiskers. Then he gave a great spring, just
escaped the chisel Ruggedo had flung at his head, and pattered away into
the darkness. For several minutes the gnome danced up and down with
fury. Then, as there was no one to pinch or shake, he started to work
harder than ever on the sixth rock of his history. There were six of the
great stones set in a row on one side of the cavern and the carving on
them had taken the old gnome King the best part of two years. The
letters were crooked and roughly chiseled, but quite readable. On the
first rock he had carved:

                    History of Ruggedo in Six Rocks

                  Ruggedo the Rough—King of the Gnomes

One time Metal Monarch, at other times a Limoneag, a goose, a nut, and
now a common gnome by order of
                                                           _Ozma of Oz._

The second rock told of Ruggedo’s magnificent Kingdom under the
mountains of Ev, of the thousands of gnomes he had ruled and the great
treasure of precious gems he had possessed, in those good old days
before he was banished from his dominions.

The third rock told of his transformation of the Queen of Ev and her
children into ornaments for his palace and of their rescue by a party
from Oz, through the cleverness of Billina, a yellow hen. It told of the
loss of his Magic Belt which was captured at this same time by Dorothy,
a little girl from Kansas.

The fourth rock related how Ruggedo had tried to conquer Oz and recover
his belt; how all of his plans failed and how he tumbled into the
Fountain of Oblivion and forgot all about his campaign.

The fifth rock had taken Ruggedo the longest to carve, for it gave the
story of his banishment by the Great Jinn Titihoochoo. You have probably
read this story yourself. How Tik Tok, Betsy Bobbin, Shaggyman and
Polychrome, trying to find Shaggy’s brother, hidden in the Gnome King’s
metal forest, were thrown down a long tube to the other side of the
world, and how the owner of the tube sent Quox, the dragon, to punish
Ruggedo by banishment from his Kingdom and how Kaliko was made King of
the Gnomes.

The sixth rock told of Ruggedo’s last attempt to capture Oz. Meeting
Kiki Aru, a Highup boy who knew a magic transformation word, Ruggedo
suggested that they change themselves to Limoneags—queer beasts with
lion heads, monkey tails and eagle wings—get all the beasts of Oz to
help and march on the Emerald City. But this plan failed, too. Kiki lost
his temper and changed Ruggedo to a goose, the Wizard of Oz discovered
the magic word and changed both the conspirators to nuts. Later on they
were changed back to their normal shapes, but again Ruggedo was plunged
into the Fountain of Oblivion and again forgot his wicked plans. This
ended the rock history, except for a short sentence stating that Ruggedo
now lived in the Emerald City.

But the magic of the Fountain of Oblivion had soon worn off and it was
not long before Ruggedo began to remember his past wickedness. That is
why he decided to carve his life story in rock, so that it would be
handy should he ever fall into the forgetful fountain again. And it had
taken six rocks to tell all of his adventures. He had not carved these
stories just as they had happened, nor ever called himself wicked, but
he had told most of the facts, leaving out the parts most unflattering
to himself. And now it was finished—his whole history in six rocks.
Throwing down his chisel for the last time, Ruggedo straightened up and
regarded his work with glowing pride.

“I don’t believe there’s another history like this in all Oz,” puffed
the gnome, tugging at his silver beard.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“It’s a good thing,” chuckled Wag, who had come back to eat a carrot.
“Oz would not be a very happy place if there were many folks like you.”

He seated himself quietly on the first rock of Ruggedo’s history, and
began nibbling his carrot.

“Get up! How dare you sit on my history?” Ruggedo stamped his foot and
started threateningly toward Wag.

“All right,” said the rabbit, “it’s too hard, anyway.”

“Of course it’s hard,” stormed Ruggedo. “I’ve had a hard life; hard as
those rocks. Everybody’s been against me from the very start, and all
because I’m so little,” he finished bitterly.

“No, because you are so wicked,” said the rabbit calmly. “Now, don’t
throw your pipe at me, for you know it’s the truth.”

Ruggedo glared at the rabbit for a minute, then rushed over to the
wooden doll, and began shaking her furiously. He always vented his rage
on the wooden doll.

“Stop that,” screamed Wag, “or I’ll leave upon the spot. You ought to be
ashamed of yourself. You old scrabble-scratch.”

“She’s not alive,” snapped Ruggedo sulkily.

“How do you know?” retorted the rabbit. “Anyway, she’s a jolly creature.
I’m not going to have her banged around. Here you’ve taken her away from
her little mother, and she hasn’t even anyone to rock her to sleep.”

“I’ll rock her to sleep,” screamed Ruggedo, maliciously. And flinging
the doll on the floor he began hurling small rocks at the helpless
little figure.

Scrambling to his feet, Wag rescued the wooden doll again, and Ruggedo,
who really was afraid the rabbit would leave him, subsided into his
rocking chair. Then reaching up to a small shelf over his head, he
pulled down an accordion. At the first doleful wheeze Wag gave a great
hop, dropped Peg and disappeared into his room in the farthest corner of
the cave.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

After his last attempt to capture Oz, the gnome had been given a small
cottage to live in, just outside the Emerald City. But Ruggedo could not
bear life above ground. The sunlight hurt his eyes, and the contented,
happy faces of the people hurt his feelings, for he was exactly what Wag
had called him—an old scrabble-scratch. So, while he pretended to live
in the little cottage, according to Ozma’s orders, he really spent most
of his time in this deep, dark cave. He entered it by a secret passage,
opening from his cellar.

Digging the long passage had been the hardest work Ruggedo had ever done
in his bad little life. While toiling one day, he had bumped into the
underground burrow of Wag, a wandering rabbit of Oz, and after a deal of
bargaining, the rabbit had agreed to help him. Wag was to receive a ruby
a month for his services, for the gnome still had a large bag of
precious stones, which he had brought from the old Kingdom. After the
bargain with Wag was made, the passage progressed rapidly, for the
rabbit was an expert digger.

It was Ruggedo’s idea to tunnel himself out a secret chamber, directly
under Ozma’s palace, and there establish a kingdom of his own. But when
they had almost reached the spot, the earth began to crumble away, and a
few strokes of Ruggedo’s spade revealed a great dark cavern, already
tunneled by someone else. It was huge and the exact shape of the royal
palace. This Ruggedo discovered by careful measurement, and also that it
was directly beneath the gorgeous green edifice, so that the footsteps
of the servants could be heard faintly, pattering to and fro.

This dark, underground retreat suited the former Gnome King exactly and,
without stopping to wonder to whom it had belonged, Ruggedo gleefully
took possession. For almost two years he had lived here without anyone
suspecting it, but so far his kingdom had not progressed very well. Wag
had tried to coax some of his rabbit relations to serve the old gnome as
subjects, but Ruggedo, besides his terrible temper, had a mean habit of
pulling their ears, so that the whole crew had deserted the first week.
He had pulled Wag’s ears once, but the rabbit tore out a pawful of his
whiskers, and bit him so severely in the leg that Ruggedo had never
dared to try it again.

Wag had stayed partly because Ruggedo amused him and partly because of
the bribes, for every day, in fear of losing his only retainer, Ruggedo
brought Wag something from the Emerald City—something he had stolen! In
return, Wag waited on the bad little gnome and listened to his
grumblings against everybody in Oz. All the furnishings of this strange
cave had been stolen from various houses in the Emerald City. The
twenty-seven brocade cushions had been taken, one at a time from the
palace; the green emerald lamp also. Every day Ruggedo ran innocently
about the city, pretending to visit this one and that, and every day
cups, spoons, and candlesticks disappeared.

The doll’s rocker, which Ruggedo insisted upon calling his throne, had
been taken from Betsy Bobbin, a little girl who lived with Ozma in the
palace. He had lugged it through the secret passage with great
difficulty. The wooden doll had been stolen from Trot, another of Ozma’s
companions. She was Trot’s favorite doll, for she had been carved out of
wood by Captain Bill, an old one-legged sailor, who was one of the most
celebrated characters in all Oz. He had carved her for Trot one day when
they were on a picnic in the Winkie Country, from the wood of a small
yellow tree, and as Captain Bill had old-fashioned notions, Peg was a
very old-fashioned doll. But she had splendid joints and could sit down
and stand up. Her face was painted and as pleasant as laughing blue
eyes, a turned-up nose, and a smiling mouth could make it. Trot had
dressed her in a funny, old-fashioned dress, with pantalettes, and then,
thinking Peg too short a name, the little girl had added Amy, because
she was so amiable, she confided laughingly to the old sailor. Captain
Bill had wagged his head understandingly, and Peg Amy had straightway
become the most popular doll in the palace; that is, until she
disappeared, for Ruggedo had found her one day in the garden and,
chuckling wickedly, had carried her off to his cave.

How Trot would have felt if she had seen her poor doll being shaken and
scolded by the old Gnome King! But Trot never knew. She hunted and
hunted for her doll, and finally gave up in despair. Fortunately, Peg
was well made, or she would have been shaken to bits, but her joints
held bravely, and nothing—not even the terrible scolding of the bad old
gnome—could change her pleasant expression.

Being the sole subject of so wicked a King, however, was wearing even
for a wooden doll, and Peg was beginning to show signs of wear. Her nose
was badly chipped, one pantalette was missing, and both sleeves had been
jerked from her dress by the furious old gnome. If the rabbit was
around, Ruggedo did not shake Peg as hard as he wanted to, but when the
rabbit was gone, he pretended she was his old steward, Kaliko, and
scolded and flung her about to his heart’s content.

[Illustration: Ruggedo scolded and flung Peg about furiously]

When not carving his history or shaking Peg, Ruggedo had spent most of
his time digging new tunnels and chambers, so that leading off from the
main cavern was a perfect network of underground passages. In the back
of Ruggedo’s head was a notion that some day he would conquer the
Emerald City, regain his magic powers and then, after changing all the
inhabitants to mouldy muffins, return to his dominions and oust Kaliko
from his throne. Just how this was to be done, he had not decided, but
the secret passages would be useful. So meanwhile he dug secret
passages.

Above ground the little rascal went about so meekly and pretended to be
so delighted with his life among the inhabitants of the Emerald City,
that Ozma really thought he had reformed. Wag, to whom he confided his
plans, would shake his head gloomily and often planned to leave the
services of the wicked old gnome. There was no real harm in Wag, but the
rabbit had a weakness for collecting, and the spoons, cups and odds and
ends that Ruggedo brought him from the Emerald City filled him with
delight. He felt that they were not gotten honestly, but his work for
Ruggedo was honest and hard, “and it’s not my fault if the old
scrabble-scratch steals ’em,” Wag would mumble to himself. In his heart
he knew that he was doing wrong to stay with Ruggedo, but like all
foolish creatures he could not make up his mind to go. So this very
night, while the old gnome sat playing the accordion and howling doleful
snatches of the Gnome National Air, Wag was gloating over his treasures.
They quite filled his little dug-out room. There were two emerald
plates, a gold pencil, a dozen china cups and saucers, twenty thimbles
stolen from the work baskets of the good dames of Oz, scraps of silk,
pictures and almost everything you could imagine.

“I’ll soon have enough to marry and go to house-keeping on,” murmured
the rabbit, clasping his paws and twitching his nose very fast. He
picked up a pair of purple wool socks that had once belonged to a little
girl’s doll and regarded them rapturously. Out of all the articles
Ruggedo had given him, Wag considered these purple socks the most
valuable, perhaps because they exactly fitted him and were the only
things he could really use. The squeaking of the accordion stopped at
last and, supposing his wicked little master had retired for the night,
Wag prepared to enjoy himself. Draping a green silk scarf over his
shoulders, he strutted before the mirror, pretending he was a Courtier
of Oz. Then, throwing down the scarf, he sat down on the floor and had
just drawn on one of the socks when a loud shrill scream from Ruggedo
made his ears stand straight on end in amazement.

“What now?” coughed the rabbit, seizing the candle. Ruggedo was on his
knees before the rocking chair.

“As I was sitting here, playing and singing,” spluttered the old gnome,
“I noticed a little ring in one of the rocks on the floor!”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“Well, what of it?” sniffed Wag, leaning down to pull up his sock.

“What of it?” shrieked the gnome. “What of it, you poor, puny earth
worm! Look!” Leaning over Ruggedo’s shoulder and dropping hot candle
grease down the gnome’s neck, Wag peered into a square opening in the
floor. There lay a small gold box. Studded in gems on the lid were these
words:

                      Glegg’s Box of Mixed Magic.

“Mixed magic!” stuttered Wag, dropping the candle. “Oh, my socks and
soup spoons!”

Ruggedo said nothing, but his little red eyes blazed maliciously.
Reaching down, he lifted out the box and, clasping it to his fat little
stomach, shook his fist at the high domed ceiling of the cave.

“Now!” hissed Ruggedo triumphantly. “Now we shall see what mixed magic
will do to the Emerald City of Oz!”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 7
                        Sir Hokus And The Giants


“Oh!” sighed Sir Hokus of Pokes and Oz, stretching his armored legs to
the fire. “How I yearn to slay a giant! How it would refresh me! Hast
any real giants in Oz, Dorothy?”

“Don’t you remember the candy giant?” laughed the little girl, looking
up from the handkerchief she was making for Ozma.

“Not to my taste,” said the Knight, “though his vest buttons were vastly
nourishing.”

“Well, there’s Mr. Yoop—he’s a real blood-and-bone giant. There are
plenty of giants, I guess, if we knew just where to find them!” said the
little girl, biting off her thread.

  “Find ’em—bind ’em,
  Get behind ’em!
  Hokus Pokus
  He don’t mind ’em!”

screamed the Patch Work Girl, bounding out of her chair. “But why can’t
you stay peaceably at home, old Iron Sides, and be jolly like the rest
of us?”

“You don’t understand, Scraps,” put in Dorothy gravely. “Sir Hokus is a
Knight and it is a true Knight’s duty to slay giants and dragons and go
on quests!”

“_That_ it is, my Lady Patches!” boomed Sir Hokus, puffing out his
chest. “I’ve rusted here in idleness long enough. To-morrow, with Ozma’s
permission, I shall start on a giant quest.”

“I’d go with you, only I’ve promised to help Ozma count the royal
emeralds,” said the Scarecrow, who had ridden over from his Corn-Ear
residence to spend a week with his old friends in the Emerald City.

  “Giants, Sir, are bluff and rude
  And might mistake a man for food!

  Hokus Pokus, be discreet,
  Or you will soon be giant meat!”

chuckled the Patch Work Girl, crooking her finger under the Knight’s
nose.

“Nonsense!” blustered Sir Hokus, waving Scraps aside. Rising from his
green arm chair, he strode up and down the room, his armor clanking at
every step. Straightway the company began to tell about wild giants they
had read of or known. Trot and Betsy Bobbin held hands as they sat
together on the sofa, and Toto, Dorothy’s small dog, crept closer to his
little mistress, the bristles on his back rising higher as each story
was finished. “Giant stories are all very well, but why tell ’em at
night?” shivered Toto, peering nervously at the long shadows in the
corners of the room.

It was the evening after Ruggedo’s strange discovery of the mixed magic
and in the royal palace Ozma and most of the Courtiers had retired. But
a few of Princess Dorothy’s special friends had gathered in the cozy
sitting-room of her apartment to talk about old times. They were very
unusual and interesting friends, not at all the sort one would expect to
find in a royal palace, even in Fairyland. Dorothy, herself, before she
had become a Princess of Oz, had been a little girl from Kansas but,
after several visits to this delightful country, she had preferred to
make Oz her home.

Trot and Betsy Bobbin also had come from the United States by way of
shipwrecks, so to speak, and had been invited to remain by Ozma, the
little fairy Princess who ruled Oz, and now each of these girls had a
cozy little apartment in the royal palace. Toto had come with Dorothy,
but the rest of the company were of more or less magic extraction.

The Scarecrow, a stuffed straw person, with a marvelous set of mixed
brains given to him by the Wizard of Oz, was Dorothy’s favorite. In fact
she had discovered him herself upon a Munchkin farm, lifted him down
from his bean pole and brought him to the Emerald City. Tik Tok was a
wonderful man made entirely of copper, who could talk, think and act as
well as the next fellow when properly wound. You would have been amazed
to hear the giant story he was ticking off at this very minute. As for
Scraps, she had been made by a magician’s wife out of old pieces of
patch-work and magically brought to life. Her bright patches, yarn hair
and silver suspender button eyes gave Scraps so comical an expression
that just to look at her tickled one’s funny bone. Her head was full of
nonsense rhymes and she was so amusing and cheerful that Ozma insisted
upon her living with the rest of the celebrities in the Emerald City.

[Illustration: Just to Look at Scraps Tickled One’s Funny Bone]

Sir Hokus of Pokes was a comparative new-comer in the capital city of
Oz. Yet the Knight was so old that it would give me lumbago just to try
to count up his birthdays. He dated back to King Arthur, in fact, and
had been wished into the Land of Oz centuries before by an enemy
sorcerer. Dorothy had found and rescued him, with the Cowardly Lion’s
help, from Pokes, the dullest Kingdom in Oz. As there were no other
Knights in the Emerald City, Sir Hokus was much stared at and admired.
Even the Soldier with the Green Whiskers, the one and only soldier and
entire army of Oz—yes, even the soldier with the Green Whiskers saluted
Sir Hokus when he passed. Ozma, herself, felt more secure since the
Knight had come to live in the palace. He was well versed in adventure
and always courageous and courteous, withal.

But, while I’ve been telling you all this, Tik Tok had finished his
story of a three-legged giant who lived in Ev.

“And where is Ev?” puffed Sir Hokus, planting himself before Tik Tok.

“Ev,” began Tik Tok in his precise fashion, “is to the north-west of
here on the oth-er side of the im—” There was a whirr and a click and
the copper man stood motionless and soundless, his round eyes fixed
solemnly on the Knight.

“Pass-able des-ert,” finished the Scarecrow, jumping up and kindly
winding all of Tik Tok’s keys as if nothing had happened.

“Pass-able des-ert,” continued the Copper Man.

“That’s where the old Gnome King used to live,” piped Betsy Bobbin,
bouncing up and down upon the sofa, “under the mountains of Ev, and he
threw us down a tube and tried to melt you in a crucible, didn’t he, Tik
Tok?”

“He was a ve-ry bad per-son,” said the Copper Man.

  “Ruggedo was a wicked King,
  ’Tho’ now he’s good as pie,
  But none the less, I must confess,
  He has a wicked eye!”

burst out Scraps, who was tired of sitting still listening to giant
stories.

But Sir Hokus could not be got off the subject of giants. “To Ev!”
thundered the Knight, raising his sword. “To-morrow I’m off to Ev to
conquer this terrible monster. Large as a mountain, you say, Tik Tok?
Well, what care I for mountains? I, Sir Hokus of Pokes, will slay him!”

“Hurrah for the giant killer!” giggled Scraps, turning a somersault and
nearly falling in the fire.

“Let’s go to bed!” said Dorothy uneasily. She had for the last few
minutes been hearing strange rumbles. Of course it could not be giants;
still the conversation, she concluded, had better be finished by
sunlight.

But it never was, for at that moment there was a deafening crash. The
lights went out; the whole castle shivered; furniture fell every which
way. Down clattered Sir Hokus, falling with a terrible clangor on top of
the Copper Man. Down rolled the little girls and the Scarecrow and
Scraps. Down tumbled everybody.

“Cyclone!” gasped Dorothy, who had experienced several in Kansas.

“Giants!” stuttered Betsy Bobbin, clutching Trot.

The Wizard of Oz tried to reassure the agitated company. He told them
there was no cause for alarm, and that they would soon find out what was
the trouble. The soothing words of the Wizard were scarcely heard.

[Illustration: The Smiling Little Wizard of Oz]

What the others said was lost in the noise that followed.
Thumps—bangs—crashes—screams came from every room in the rocking palace.

“We’re flying! The whole castle’s flying up in the air!” screamed
Dorothy. Then she subsided, as an emerald clock and three pictures came
thumping down on her head.

What had happened? No one could say. Dorothy, Betsy Bobbin and Trot had
fainted dead away. The Scarecrow and Sir Hokus were tangled up on the
floor, clasped in each other’s arms.

The confusion was terrific. Only the Wizard was still calm and smiling.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 8
                        Woe In The Emerald City


The Soldier with the Green Whiskers finished his breakfast slowly,
combed his beard, pinned on all of his medals and solemnly issued forth
from his little house at the garden gates.

“Forward march!” snapped the soldier. He had to give himself orders,
being the only man, general or private in the army. And forward march he
did. It was his custom to report to Ozma every morning to receive his
orders for the day. When he had gone through the little patch of trees
that separated his cottage from the palace, the Soldier with the Green
Whiskers gave a great leap.

“Halt! Break ranks!” roared the Grand Army of Oz, clutching his beard in
terror. “Great Goloshes!” He rubbed his eyes and looked again. Yes, the
gorgeous emerald-studded palace had disappeared, leaving not so much as
a gold brick to tell where it had stood. Trembling in every knee, the
Grand Army of Oz approached. A great black hole, the exact shape of the
palace, yawned at his feet. He took one look down that awful cavity,
then shot through the palace gardens like a green comet.

Like Paul Revere he had gone to give the alarm, and Paul Revere himself
never made better time. He thumped on windows and banged on doors and
dashed through the sleeping city like a whirlwind. In five minutes there
was not a man, woman or child who did not know of the terrible calamity.
They rushed to the palace gardens in a panic. Some stared up in the air;
others peered down the dark hole; still others ran about wildly trying
to discover some trace of the missing castle.

“What shall we do?” they wailed dismally. For to have their lovely
little Queen and the Wizard and all the most important people in Oz
disappear at once was simply terrifying. They were a gentle and kindly
folk, used to obeying orders, and now there was no one to tell them what
to do.

At last Unk Nunkie, an old Munchkin who had taken up residence in the
Emerald City, pushed through the crowd. Unk was a man of few words, but
a wise old chap for all that, so they made way for him respectfully.
First Unk Nunkie stroked his beard; then pointing with his long lean
finger toward the south he snapped out one word—“GLINDA!”

Of course! They must tell Glinda. Why had they not thought of it
themselves? Glinda would know just what to do and how to do it. Three
cheers for Unk Nunkie! Glinda, you know, is the good Sorceress of Oz,
who knows more magic than anyone in the Kingdom, but who only practices
it for the people’s good. Indeed, Glinda and the Wizard of Oz are the
only ones permitted to practice magic, for so much harm had come of it
that Ozma made a law forbidding sorcery in all of its branches. But even
in a fairy country people do not always obey the laws and everyone felt
that magic was at the bottom of this disaster.

So away to fetch Glinda dashed the Grand Army, his green whiskers
streaming behind him. Fortunately the royal stables had not disappeared
with the palace, so the gallant army sprang upon the back of the Saw
Horse, and without stopping to explain to the other royal beasts, bade
it carry him to Glinda as fast as it could gallop. Being made of wood
with gold shod feet and magically brought to life, the Saw Horse can run
faster than any animal in Oz. It never tired or needed food and when it
understood that the palace and its dear little Mistress had disappeared
it fairly flew; for the Saw Horse loved Ozma with all its saw dust and
was devoted as only a wooden beast can be.

[Illustration: The Grand Army sprang upon the back of the Saw Horse]

In an hour they had reached Glinda’s shining marble palace in the
southern part of the Quadling country, and as soon as the lovely
Sorceress had heard the soldier’s story, she hurried to the magic Book
of Records. This is the most valuable book in Oz and it is kept
padlocked with many golden chains to a gold table, for in this great
volume appear all the events happening in and out of the world.

Now, Glinda had been so occupied trying to discover the cause of frowns
that she had not referred to the book for several days and naturally
there were many pages to go over. There were hundreds of entries
concerning automobile accidents in the United States and elsewhere.
These Glinda passed over hurriedly, till she came to three sentences
printed in red, for Oz news always appeared in the book in red letters.
The first sentence did not seem important. It merely stated that the
Prince of Pumperdink was journeying toward the Emerald City. The other
two entries seemed serious.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“Glegg’s box of Mixed Magic has been discovered,” said the second, and
“Ruggedo has something on his _mind_,” stated the third. Glinda pored
over the book for a long time to see whether any more information would
be given but not another red sentence appeared. With a sigh, Glinda
turned to the Soldier with the Green Whiskers.

[Illustration: “Ruggedo Has Something on His Mind,” Read Glinda]

“The old Gnome King must be mixed up in this,” she said anxiously, “and
as he was last seen in the Emerald City, I will return with you at
once.” So Glinda and the Soldier with the Green Whiskers flew back to
the Emerald City drawn in Glinda’s chariot by swift flying swans and the
little Saw Horse trotted back by himself. When they reached the gardens
a great crowd had gathered by the Fountain of Oblivion and a tall green
grocer was speaking excitedly.

“What is it?” asked Glinda, shuddering as she passed the dreadful hole
where Ozma’s lovely palace had once stood. Everyone started explaining
at once so that Glinda was obliged to clap her hands for silence.

“Foot print!” Unk Nunkie stood upon his tip toes and whispered it in
Glinda’s ear and when she looked where Unk pointed she saw a huge,
shallow cave-in that crushed the flower beds for as far as she could
see.

“Foot print!” gasped Glinda in amazement.

“Uh huh!” Unk Nunkie wagged his head determinedly and then, pulling his
hat down over his eyes, spoke his last word on the subject: “_GIANT!_”

“A giant foot print! Why so it is!” cried Glinda.

“What shall we do? What shall we do?” cried the frightened inhabitants
of the Emerald City, wringing their hands.

“First, find Ruggedo,” ordered Glinda, suddenly remembering the
mysterious entry in the Book of Records. So, away to the little cottage
hurried the crowd. They searched it from cellar to garret, but of course
found no trace of the wicked little gnome. As no one knew about the
secret passage in Ruggedo’s cellar, they never thought of searching
underground.

Meanwhile Glinda sank down on one of the golden garden benches and tried
to think. The Comfortable Camel stumbled broken-heartedly across the
lawn and dropping on its knees begged the Sorceress in a tearful voice
to save Sir Hokus of Pokes. The Camel and the Doubtful Dromedary had
been discovered by the Knight on his last adventure and were deeply
attached to him. Soon all the palace pets came and stood in a dejected
row before Glinda—Betsy’s mule, Hank, hee-hawing dismally and the Hungry
Tiger threatening to eat everyone in sight if any harm came to the three
little girls.

“I doubt if we’ll ever see them again,” groaned the Doubtful Dromedary,
leaning up against a tree.

“Oh Doubty—how _can_ you?” wailed the Camel, tears streaming down its
nose.

“Please do be quiet,” begged Glinda, “or I’ll forget all the magic I
know. Let me see, now—how does one catch a marauding giant who has run
off with a castle?”

On her fingers Glinda counted up all the giants in the four countries of
Oz. No! It could not be an Oz giant; there was none large enough. It
must be a giant from some strange country.

When the crowd returned with the news that Ruggedo had disappeared
Glinda felt more uneasy still. But hiding her anxiety she bade the
people return to their homes and continue their work and play as usual.
Then, promising to return that evening with a plan to save the castle,
and charging the Soldier with the Green Whiskers to keep a strict watch
in the garden, Glinda stepped into her chariot and flew back to the
South. All that day, in her palace in the Quadling country, Glinda bent
over her encyclopedia on giants, and far into the night the lights
burned from her high turret-chamber, as she consulted book after book of
magic.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 9
                       Mixed Magic Makes Mischief


The Book of Records had been perfectly correct in stating that Ruggedo
had something on his mind. _He had!_ To understand the mysterious
disappearance of Ozma’s palace, we must go back to the old Ex-King of
the Gnomes. The whole of the night after he had found Glegg’s box of
Mixed Magic, Ruggedo had spent trying to open the box. But pry and poke
as he would it stubbornly refused to give up its secrets.

“Better come to bed,” advised Wag, twitching his nose nervously. “Mixed
Magic isn’t safe, you know. It might explode.”

“Idiot!” grumbled Ruggedo. “I don’t know who Glegg is or was, but I’m
going to find out what kind of magic he mixes. I’m going to open this
box if it takes me a century.”

“All right,” quavered Wag, retiring backward and holding up his paw.
“All right, but remember I warned you! Don’t meddle with magic, that’s
my motto!”

“I don’t care a harebell what your motto is,” sneered the gnome,
continuing to hammer on the gold lid.

When he reached his room, Wag shut the door and sank dejectedly upon the
edge of the bed.

“There’s no manner of use trying to stop him,” sighed the rabbit, “so
I’ve got to get out of here before he gets me into trouble. I’ll go
to-morrow!” resolved Wag, pulling his long ear nervously. With this good
resolution, the little rabbit drooped off asleep.

Very cautiously he opened the door of his little rock-room next morning.
Ruggedo was sound asleep on the floor, his head on the magic box, and
Peg Amy, with her wooden arms and legs flung out in every direction, lay
sprawled in a corner.

“Been shaking you again, the old scrabble-scratch!” whispered the rabbit
indignantly, “just ’cause he couldn’t open that box. Well, never mind,
Peg, I’m leaving to-day and as surely as I’ve ears and whiskers you
shall go too!” Picking up the poor wooden doll Wag tucked her under his
arm. Was it imagination, or did the little wooden face break into a
sunny smile? It seemed so to Wag and, with a real thrill of pleasure, he
tip-toed back to his room and began tossing his treasures into one of
the bed sheets. He seated Peg in his own small rocking chair and from
time to time he nodded to her reassuringly.

“We’ll soon be out now, my dear,” he chuckled, quite as if Peg had been
alive. She often did seem alive to Wag. “Then we’ll see what Ozma has to
say to this Mixed Magic,” continued the bunny, wiggling his ears
indignantly. And so occupied was he collecting his treasures that he did
not hear Ruggedo’s call and next minute the angry gnome himself stood in
the doorway.

“What does this mean?” he cried furiously, pointing to the tied up
sheet. Then he stamped his foot so hard that Peg Amy fell over sideways
in the chair and all the ornaments in the room skipped as if alive.

The rabbit whirled ’round in a hurry.

“It means I’m leaving you for good, you wicked little monster!” shrilled
Wag, his whiskers trembling with agitation and his ears sticking
straight out behind. “_Leaving_—do you hear?”

Then he snatched Peg Amy in one paw and his treasures in the other and
tried to brush past Ruggedo. But the gnome was too quick for him.
Springing out of the room, he slammed the door and locked it. Wag could
hear him rolling up rocks for further security.

“Thought you’d steal a march on old Ruggedo; thought you’d tell Ozma all
his plans and get a nice little reward! Well, _think again_!” shouted
the gnome through the keyhole.

Wag had plenty of time to think, for Ruggedo never came near the
rabbit’s room all day. At every sound poor Wag leaped into the air, for
he felt sure each blow could only mean the opening of the dreaded magic
box. To reassure himself he held long conversations with the wooden doll
and Peg’s calm cheerfulness steadied him a lot.

“I might dig my way out but it would take so long! My ear tips! How
provoking it is!” exclaimed Wag. “But perhaps he’ll relent by
nightfall!” Slowly the day dragged on but nothing came from the big rock
room but thumps, grumbles and bangs.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“It is fortunate that you do not eat, Peg, dear,” sighed the rabbit late
in the afternoon, nibbling disconsolately on a stale biscuit he had
found under his bureau. “Shall you care very much if I starve? I
probably shall, you know. Of course no one in Oz can die, but starving
forever is not comfortable either.” At this the wooden doll seemed to
shake her head, as much as to say: “You won’t starve, Wag dear; just be
patient a little longer.” Not that she really said this, mind you, but
Wag knew from her smile that this is what she was thinking.

It was hot and stuffy in the little rock chamber and the faint light
that filtered down from the hole in the ceiling was far from cheerful.
At last night came, and that was worse. Wag lit his only candle but it
was already partly burned down and soon with a dismal sputter it went
out and left the two sitting in the dark. Peg Amy stared cheerfully
ahead but the rabbit, worn out by his long day of fright and worry, fell
into a heavy slumber.

Meanwhile Ruggedo had worked on the magic box and every minute he became
more impatient. All his poundings failed to make even a dent on the gold
lid and even jumping on it brought no result. The little gnome had eaten
nothing since morning and by nightfall he was stamping around the box in
a perfect fury. His eyes snapped and twinkled like live coals and his
wispy white hair fairly crackled with rage. Hidden in this box were
magic secrets that would doubtless enable him to capture the Whole of Oz
but, _klumping kaloogas_, how was he to get at ’em? He finally gave the
gold box such a vindictive kick that he almost crushed his curly toes;
then holding onto one foot, he hopped about on the other till he fell
over exhausted.

For several minutes he lay perfectly still; then jumping up he seized
the box and flung it with all his gnome might against the rock wall.

“Take that!” screamed Ruggedo furiously. There was a bright flash; then
the box righted itself slowly and sailed straight back into Ruggedo’s
hands and, more wonderful still, _it was open_! With his eyes almost
popping from his head, the gnome sat down on the floor, the box in his
lap.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

In the first tray were four golden flasks and each one was carefully
labeled. The first was marked, “Flying Fluid”; “Vanishing Cream” was in
the second. The third flask held “Glegg’s Instantaneous Expanding
Extract,” and in the fourth was “Spike’s Hair Strengthener.”

Ruggedo rubbed his hands gleefully and lifted out the top tray. In the
next compartment was a tiny copper kettle, a lamp and a package marked
“Triple Trick Tea.” So anxious was Ruggedo to know what was in the last
compartment that he scarcely glanced at Glegg’s tea set. Quickly he
peered into the bottom of the casket. There were two boxes. Taking up
the first Ruggedo read, “Glegg’s Question Box. Shake three times after
each question.”

“Great Grampus!” spluttered the gnome, “this is a find!” He was growing
more excited every minute and his hands shook so he could hardly read
the label on the last box. Finally he made it out: “Re-animating Rays,
guaranteed to reawaken any person who has lost the power of life through
sorcery, witchcraft or enchantment,” said the label.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

Well, did anyone ever hear anything more magic than that? Ruggedo
glanced from one to the other of the little gold flasks and boxes. There
were so many he hardly knew which to use first. “Flying Fluid and
Vanishing Cream,” mused the gnome. Well, they might help after he had
captured Oz, but he felt it would take more powerful magic than Flying
Fluid and Vanishing Cream to capture the fairy Kingdom. Next he picked
up the bottle labeled “Spike’s Hair Strengthener.” Anything that
strengthened would be helpful, so, with one eye on the last bottle,
Ruggedo absently rubbed some of the hair strengthener on his head. He
stopped rubbing in a hurry and put his finger in his mouth with a howl
of pain. Then he jumped up in alarm and ran to a small mirror hanging on
the wall. Every hair on his head had become an iron spike and the result
was so terrible that it frightened even the old gnome. He flung the
bottle angrily on the ground. But stop! He could butt his enemies with
the sharp spikes! Comforting himself with this cheerful thought, Ruggedo
returned to the magic box.

“Instantaneous Expanding Extract,” muttered the gnome, turning the
bottle over carefully. “That ought to make me _larger_—and if I were
larger—if I were larger!” He snapped his fingers and began hopping up
and down. He was about to empty the bottle over his head when he
suddenly reflected that it might be safer to try this powerful extract
on someone else. But on whom?

Ruggedo glanced quickly around the cave and then remembered the wooden
doll. He would try a little on Peg Amy and see how it worked. Turning
the key he stepped softly into Wag’s room. Without wakening the rabbit,
Ruggedo dragged out the wooden doll. Propping her up against the wall,
the gnome uncorked the bottle of expanding fluid and dropped two drops
on Peg Amy’s head. Peg was about ten inches high, but no sooner had the
expanding fluid touched her than she shot up four feet and with such
force that she lost her balance and came crashing down on top of
Ruggedo, almost crushing him flat.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“Get off, you great log of wood!” screamed the gnome, struggling
furiously. But this Peg Amy was powerless to do and it was only after a
frightful struggle that Ruggedo managed to drag himself out. He started
to shake Peg but as she was now four times his size he soon gave that
up.

“Well, anyway it works,” sighed the gnome, rubbing his nose and the
middle of his back. “I wonder how it would act on a live person? I’ll
try a little on that silly rabbit,” he concluded, tip-toeing back into
Wag’s room. Now Wag’s apartment was about seven feet square—plenty large
enough for a regular rabbit—but two drops of the expanding fluid—and,
_stars_! Wag was no longer a regular rabbit but a six-foot funny bunny,
stretching from one end of the room to the other. He expanded without
even waking up. Ruggedo had to squeeze past him in order to get out and,
chuckling with satisfaction, the gnome hurried back to his box of magic.
His mind was now made up. He would take Glegg’s Mixed Magic under his
arm, go above ground and with the Expanding Fluid change himself into a
giant. Then conquering Oz would be a simple matter.

It was all going to be so easy and amusing that Ruggedo felt he had
plenty of time to examine the rest of the bottles and boxes. He rubbed
some of the Vanishing Cream on a sofa cushion and it instantly
disappeared. The box of Re-animating Rays, guaranteed to reawaken anyone
from enchantment, interested the old gnome immensely, but how could he
try them when there was no bewitched person about—at least none that he
knew of? Then his eye fell on the Question Box. Why not try that? So,
“How shall I use the Re-animating Rays?” asked Ruggedo, shaking the box
three times. Nothing happened at first. Then, by the light from his
emerald lamp, the gnome saw a sentence forming on the lid.

“Try them on Peg,” said the box shortly. Without thinking of
consequences or wondering what the Question Box meant by suggesting Peg,
the curious gnome opened the box of rays and held it over the huge
wooden doll. For as long as it would take to count ten Peg lay perfectly
still. Then, with a creak and jerk, she sprang to her feet.

“How perfectly pomiferous!” cried Peg Amy, with an awkward jump. “I’m
alive! Why, I’m alive all over!” She moved one arm, then the other and
turned her head stiffly from side to side. “I can walk!” cried Peg. “I
can walk; I can skip; I can run!” Here Peg began running around the
cave, her joints squeaking merrily at every step.

At Peg’s first move Ruggedo had jumped back of a rock, his every spike
standing on end. Too late he realized his mistake. This huge wooden
creature clattering around the cave was positively dangerous. Why, she
might easily pound him to bits. Why on earth had he meddled with the
magic rays and why under the earth should a wooden doll come to life? He
waited till Peg had run to the farthest end of the cave; then he dashed
to the magic casket and scrambled the bottles, the Trick Tea Set and the
flasks back into place and started for the door that led to the secret
passage as fast as his crooked little legs would carry him.

But he was not fast enough, for Peg heard and like a flash was after
him.

“Stop! Go away!” screamed Ruggedo.

“Why, it’s the old gnome!” cried the Wooden Doll in surprise. “The
wicked old gnome who used to shake me all the time. Why, how small he
is! I could pick him up with one hand!” She made a snatch at Ruggedo.

“Go away!” shrieked Ruggedo, ducking behind a rock. “Go away—there’s a
dear girl,” he added coaxingly. “I didn’t shake you much—not too much,
you know!”

Peg Amy put a wooden finger to her forehead and regarded him
attentively.

“I remember,” she murmured thoughtfully. “You found a magic box, and
you’re going to harm Ozma and try to conquer Oz. I must get that box!”

Reaching around the rock she seized Ruggedo by the arm.

In a panic, he jerked away. “Help! Help!” cried the gnome King, darting
off toward the other end of the cave. “Help! Help!”

In his little rock room Wag stirred uneasily. Then, as Ruggedo’s cries
grew louder, he bounced erect and almost cracked his skull on the low
ceiling. Hardly knowing what he was doing he rushed at the door only to
knock himself almost senseless against the top, for of course he did not
realize he had expanded into a giant rabbit. But as the cries from the
other room became louder and louder he got up and rubbing his head in a
dazed fashion he somehow crowded himself through the door and hopped
into the cave. When he saw Peg Amy chasing Ruggedo, Wag fell back
against the wall.

“My wocks and hoop soons!” stuttered the rabbit. “She is alive! And he’s
shrunk!”

Wag’s voice rose triumphantly. “I’m going to pound his curly toes off!”
he shouted. With this he joined merrily in the chase.

“I’ll catch him!” he called, “I’ll catch him, Peg, my dear, and make him
pay for all the shakings he has given you. I’ll pound his curly toes
off!”

“Oh, Wag! Don’t do that,” cried the Wooden Doll, stopping short. “I
didn’t mind the shakings and gnomes don’t know any better!”

“Neither do rabbits!” cried Wag stubbornly, bounding after Ruggedo.
“I’ll pound his curly toes off, I tell you!”

The old gnome was sputtering like a firecracker. What chance had he now
with two after him? Then suddenly he had an idea. Without stopping, he
fumbled in the box which he still clutched under one arm and pulled out
the bottle of Expanding Fluid. Uncorking the bottle he poured its
contents over his head—_every single drop_!

This is what happened: First he shot out sideways, till Peg and Wag were
almost crushed against the wall. With a hoarse scream Wag dragged Peg
Amy back into his room, which was now barely large enough to hold them.
They were just in time, for Ruggedo was still spreading. Soon there was
not an inch of space left to expand in. Then he shot up and grew up and
grew and grew and groaned and grew till there wasn’t any more room to
grow in. So, he burst through the top of the cave, with a noise like
fifty boilers exploding.

No wonder Dorothy thought it was a cyclone! For what was on the top of
the cave but the royal palace of Oz? The next instant it was impaled
fast on the spikes of Ruggedo’s giant head and shooting up with him
toward the clouds. And that wretched gnome never stopped growing till he
was three-quarters of a mile high!

[Illustration: The royal palace of Oz impaled fast on the spikes of
Ruggedo’s giant head]

If the people in the palace were frightened, Ruggedo was more frightened
still. Being a giant was a new experience for him and having a castle
jammed on his head was worse still. The first thing he tried to do, when
he stopped growing, was to lift the castle off, but his spikes were
driven fast into the foundations and it fitted closer than his scalp.

In a panic Ruggedo began to run, and when a giant runs he gets
somewhere. Each step carried him a half mile and shook the country below
like an earthquake and rattled the people in the castle above like
pennies in a Christmas bank. Shaking with terror and hardly knowing why,
the gnome made for his old Kingdom, and in an hour had reached the
little country of Oogaboo, which is in the very northwestern corner of
Oz, opposite his old dominions.

The Deadly Desert is so narrow at this point that with one jump Ruggedo
was across and, puffing like a volcano about to erupt, he sank down on
the highest mountain in Ev. Fortunately he had not stepped on any cities
in his flight, although he had crushed several forests and about a
hundred fences.

“Oh, Oh, My head!” groaned Ruggedo, rocking to and fro. He seemed to
have forgotten all about conquering Oz. He was full of twinges and
growing pains. Ozma’s castle was giving him a thundering headache, and
there he sat, a fearsome figure in the bright moonlight, moaning and
groaning instead of conquering.

The Book of Records had been right indeed when it stated that Ruggedo
had something on his mind. Ozma’s castle itself sat squarely upon that
mischievous mind—and every moment it seemed to grow heavier.

No wonder there had been confusion in the castle! Every time Ruggedo
shook his aching head Ozma and her guests were tossed about like leaves
in a storm. Mixed magic had made mischief indeed.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 10
                       Peg and Wag To The Rescue


For a long time after the terrific bang following Ruggedo’s final
expansion, Wag and Peg Amy had been too stunned to even move. Crowded
together in the little rock room, they lay perfectly breathless.

“Umpthing sappened,” quavered the rabbit at last.

“That sounds rather queer, but I think I know what you mean,” said Peg,
sitting up cautiously.

“Something has happened. Ruggedo’s been blown up, I guess.”

“Mixed Magic!” groaned Wag gloomily. “I knew it would explode. Say, Peg,
what makes this room so small?”

“I don’t know,” sighed the doll in a puzzled voice, for neither Peg nor
Wag realized how much they had grown. “But let’s go above ground and see
what has become of Ruggedo.” One at a time and with great difficulty
they got through the door.

“Why, there are the stars!” cried Peg Amy, clasping her wooden hands
rapturously. “Real stars!” The top of the cave had gone off with the old
gnome King and the two stood looking up at the lovely skies of Oz.

“It doesn’t seem so high as it used to,” said the rabbit, looking at the
walls. “Why, I believe I could jump out if I took a good run and carry
you, too. Come ashort, Peg!”

“Aren’t you mixed, Wag dear? Don’t you mean come along?” asked Peg,
smoothing down her torn dress.

“Well, now that you mention it, my head does feel queer,” admitted the
rabbit, twitching his nose, “bort of sackwards!”

“Sort of backwards,” corrected Peg gently. “Well, never mind. I know
what you mean. But do let’s try to find that awful box of magic. You
know Ruggedo brought me to life, Wag, with something in that box!”

“Only good thing he ever did,” said Wag, shaking his head. “But I think
you were alive before,” he added solemnly. “You always seemed alive to
me.”

“I think so, too,” whispered Peg excitedly. “I can’t remember just how,
or where, but Oh! Wag! I know I’ve been alive before. I remember
dancing.”

Peg took a few awkward steps and Wag looked on dubiously, too polite to
criticize her efforts. He didn’t even laugh when Peg Amy fell down. Peg
laughed herself, however, as merrily as possible. “It’s going to be such
fun being alive,” she said, picking herself up gaily, “such fun, Wag
dear. Why, there’s Glegg’s box!” She pounced upon the little shining
gold casket. “Ruggedo didn’t take it after all!”

“Is it shut?” asked Wag, clapping both paws to his ears. “Look out for
explosions, say I.”

“No, but I’ll soon close it,” said Peg and, shutting Glegg’s box, she
slipped it into pocket of her dress. It was about half the size of this
book you are reading and as Peg’s pockets were big and old fashioned, it
fitted quite nicely.

“Come ashort,” said Wag again, looking around uneasily, for he was
anxious to get out of the gnome’s cave. So Peg seated herself carefully
on his back and clasped her wooden arms around his neck. Then Wag ran
back a few steps, gave a great jump and sailed up, up and out of the
cave.

“Ten penny tea cups!” shrieked the Soldier with the Green Whiskers,
falling over backwards. “What next?” For Wag with Peg on his back had
leaped straight over his head.

Picking himself up, and with every whisker in his beard prickling
straight on end, the Grand Army of Oz backed toward the royal stable.
When he had backed half the distance he turned and ran for his life. But
he need not have been afraid.

“What a funny little man,” chuckled Wag. “Why, he’s no bigger than we
are. He’s no—!” Then suddenly Wag clutched his ears. “Oh!” he screamed,
beginning to hop up and down, “I forgot all my treasures—my olden goop
soons. Oh! Oh! My urple sool wocks! I’ve forgotten my urple sool wocks!”

“Your what?” cried Peg Amy, clutching him by the fur. “Now Wag, dear,
you’re all mixed up. Perhaps it’s ’cause your ears are crossed. There,
now, do stop wiggling your whiskers and turn out your toes!”

But Wag continued to wiggle his whiskers and turn in his toes and roar
for his urple sool wocks.

“Stop!” screamed Peg at last, with both hands over her wooden ears. “I
know what you mean! Your purple wool socks!”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“Yes,” sobbed the rabbit, slumping down on a rock and holding his head
in both paws.

“Well, don’t you think”—the Wooden Doll shook her head jerkily—“Don’t
you think it’s just as well? Ruggedo stole all those things and you
wouldn’t want stolen soup spoons, now would you?”

Wag took a long breath and regarded Peg uncertainly. Then something in
her pleasant wooden face seemed to brace him up.

“No!” he sighed solemnly—“I s’pose not. I ought to have left Rug long
ago.”

“But then you couldn’t have helped me,” said Peg brightly. “Let’s don’t
think about it any more. You’ve been awfully good to me, Wag.”

“Have I?” said Wag more cheerfully. “Well, you’re a good sort, Peg—a
regular Princess!” he finished, puffing out his chest, “and anything you
say goes.”

“Princess?” laughed the Wooden Doll, pleased nevertheless. “I’m a funny
Princess, in this old dress. Did you ever hear of a wooden Princess,
Wag?”

“You look like a Princess to me,” said the rabbit stoutly. “Dresses
don’t matter.”

This speech so tickled the Wooden Doll that she gave Wag a good hug and
began dancing again. “Being alive is such fun!” she called gaily over
her shoulder, “and you are so wonderful!”

Wag’s chest expanded at least three inches and his whiskers trembled
with emotion. “Hop on my back Peg and I’ll take you anywhere you want to
go,” he puffed magnificently.

But the Wooden Doll had suddenly grown sober. “Wherever is the castle?”
she cried anxiously. She remembered exactly where it had stood when she
was an unalive doll and now not a tower or turret of the castle was to
be seen. “Oh!” groaned Peg Amy, “Ruggedo has done something dreadful
with his Mixed Magic!”

Wag rubbed his eyes and looked all around. “Why, it’s gone!” he cried,
waving his paws. “What shall we do? If only we weren’t so small!”

“We’ve got the magic box,” said Peg hopefully, “and somehow I don’t feel
as small as I used to feel; do you?”

“Well, I feel pretty queer, myself,” said the rabbit, twitching his
nose. “Maybe it’s because I’m hungry. There’s a kitchen garden over
there near the royal stables and I think if I had some carrots I’d feel
better.”

“Of course you would!” cried Peg, jumping up. “I forgot you had to eat.”
So, very cautiously they stole into the royal cook’s garden. Wag had
often helped himself to carrots from this garden before, but now sitting
on his haunches he stared around in dazed surprise.

“Everything’s different!” wailed the rabbit dismally. “You’re the same
and I’m the same but everything else is all mixed up. Look at this
carrot. Why, it’s no bigger than a blade of grass.” Wag held up a carrot
in disgust. “Why, it will take fifty of these to give me even a taste
and the lettuce—look at it! Everything’s shrunk, even the houses!” cried
the big funny bunny, looking around. “My wocks and hoop soons,
sheverything’s hunk!”

Peg Amy had followed Wag’s gaze and now she jumped up in great
excitement. “I see it now!” cried Peg. “It’s us, Wag. Everything’s the
same but we are different. Some of that Mixed Magic has made us grow.
We’re bigger and everything else is the same. I am as tall as the little
girl who used to play with me and you are even bigger and I’m glad,
because now we can help find the castle and Ruggedo and try to make
everything right again.”

Peg clasped her wooden hands. “Aren’t you glad too, Wag?”

The rabbit shook his head. “It’s going to take an awful lot to fill me
up,” he said doubtfully. “I’ll have to eat about six times as much as I
used to.”

“Well, you’re six times as large; isn’t that any comfort?”

“My head doesn’t feel right,” insisted Wag. “As soon as I talk fast the
words all come wrong.”

“Maybe it didn’t grow as fast as the rest of you,” laughed the Wooden
Doll. “But don’t you care, Wag. I know what you mean and I think you’re
just splendid! Now hurry and finish your carrots so we can decide what
to do.

“If Mixed Magic caused all this trouble,” added Peg half to herself,
“Mixed Magic’s got to fix it. I’m going to look at that box.” Wag,
nibbling industriously, had not heard Peg’s last speech or he would
doubtless have taken to his heels.

Sitting unconcernedly in a cabbage bed, the Wooden Doll took the gold
box from her pocket. Fortunately she had not snapped the magic snap and
it opened quite easily. Her fingers were stiff and clumsy and the moon
was the only light she had to see by, but it did not take Peg Amy long
to realize the importance of Glegg’s magic.

“I wonder if he rubbed this on the castle,” she murmured, holding up the
bottle of Vanishing Cream. “And how would one bring it back? Let me see,
now.” One after the other, she took out the bottles and boxes and the
tiny tea set. The Re-animating Rays she passed over, without realizing
they were responsible for bringing her to life, but the Question Box,
Peg pounced upon with eager curiosity.

“Oh, if it only would answer questions!” fluttered Peg. Then, holding
the box close to her mouth, she whispered, “Where is Ruggedo?”

“Who are you talking to?” asked Wag, looking up in alarm. “Now don’t
_you_ get mixed up, Peg!”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“It’s a Question Box,” said the Wooden Doll, “but it’s not working very
well.” She shook it vigorously and held it up so that the light
streaming down from the stable window fell directly on it. In silver
letters on the lid of the box was one word—Ev!

“Ev—Ruggedo’s in Ev!” cried Peg Amy, rushing over to the rabbit. “Can
you take me to Ev, Wag dear?”

“Of course,” said Wag, nibbling faster and faster at his carrots. “I’ll
take you anywhere, Peg.”

“Then it’s going to be all right; I know it,” chuckled the Wooden Doll,
and putting all the magic appliances back into the box she closed the
lid with a snap. And this time the magic catch caught.

“Is it far to Ev?” asked Peg Amy, looking thoughtfully at the place
where the castle had once been.

“Quite a long journey,” said Wag, “but we’ll go a hopping. Ev is near
Ruggedo’s old home and it’s across the Deadly Desert, but we’ll get
there somehow. Trust me. And when I do!” spluttered Wag, thumping his
hind feet determinedly, “I’ll pound his curly toes off—the wicked little
monster!”

“Did you ask the Question Box where the castle was?” he inquired
hastily, for he saw Peg was going to tell him he must not pound Ruggedo.

“Why, no! How silly of me!” Peg felt in her pocket and brought out the
gold box. She tried to open it as she had done before but it was no use.
She pulled and tugged and shook it. Then Wag tried.

“There’s a secret to it,” puffed the rabbit at last. “Took Rug a whole
night and day to discover it. Can’t you remember how you opened it
before, Peg?”

The Wooden Doll shook her head sadly.

“Well, never mind,” said Wag comfortingly. “Once we find Ruggedo we can
make him tell. We’d better start right off, because if any of the people
around here saw us they might try to capture us and put us in a circus.
We are rather unusual, you know.” The rabbit regarded Peg Amy
complacently. “One doesn’t see six-foot rabbits and live dolls every
day, even in Oz!”

“No,” agreed Peg Amy slowly, “I s’pose not!”

The moon, looking down on the strange pair, ducked behind a cloud to
hide her smile, for the giant funny bunny, strutting about pompously,
and old-fashioned wooden Peg, in her torn frock, were enough to make
anyone smile.

“You think of everything,” sighed Peg, looking affectionately at Wag.

“Who wouldn’t for a girl like you? You’re a Princess, Peg—a regular
Princess.” The rabbit said it with conviction and again Peg happily
smoothed her dress.

“Hop on,” chuckled Wag, “and then I’ll hop off.”

Seating herself on his back and holding tight to one of his long ears,
Peg announced herself ready. Then away through the night shot the giant
bunny—away toward the western country of the Winkies—and each hop
carried him twelve feet forward and sent up great spurts of dust behind.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 11
                     The King of The Illumi Nation


While Ruggedo was working all this mischief in the Emerald City,
Pompadore and the Elegant Elephant had fallen into strange company.
After the Prince’s disappearance, Kabumpo stared long and anxiously at
the white marble stone with its mysterious inscription, “Knock before
you fall in.”

What would happen if he knocked, as the sign directed? Something
upsetting, the Elegant Elephant was sure, else why had Pompa called for
help?

Kabumpo groaned, for he was a luxurious beast and hated discomfort of
any sort. As for falling _in_—the very thought of it made him shudder in
every pound. But selfish and luxurious though he was, the Elegant
Elephant loved Pompa with all his heart. After all, he had run off with
the Prince and was responsible for his safety. If Pompa had fallen in he
must fall in too. With a resigned sigh, Kabumpo felt in his pocket to
see that his treasures were safe, straightened his robe and, taking one
last long breath, rapped sharply on the marble stone with his trunk.
Without a sound, the stone swung inward, and as Kabumpo was standing on
it he shot headlong into a great black opening. There was a terrific
rush of air and the slab swung back, catching as it did so the
fluttering edge of the Elegant Elephant’s robe of state. This halted his
fall for about a second and then with a spluttering tear the silk fringe
ripped loose and down plunged the Elegant Elephant, trunk over heels.

After the third somersault, Kabumpo, right side up, fortunately, struck
a soft inclined slide, down which he shot like a scenic railway train.

“Great Grump!” coughed Kabumpo, holding his jeweled headpiece with his
trunk. “Great—” Before he reached the second grump, his head struck the
top of the passage with terrific force, and that was the last he
remembered about his fall. How long he lay in an unconscious state the
Elegant Elephant never knew. After what seemed several ages he became
aware of a confused murmur. Footsteps seemed to be pattering all around
him, but he was still too stunned to be curious.

“Nothing will make me get up,” thought Kabumpo dully. “I’m going to lie
here forever and—ever—and ever—and—” Just as he reached this drowsy
conclusion, something red hot fell down his neck and a voice louder than
all the rest shouted in his ear. “_What are you?_”

“Ouch!” screamed Kabumpo, now thoroughly aroused. He opened one eye and
rolled over on his side. A tall, curious creature was bending over him.
Its head was on fire and as Kabumpo blinked angrily another red hot
shower spattered into his ear. With a trumpet of rage Kabumpo lunged to
his feet. The hot-headed person fell over backwards and a crowd of
similar creatures pattered off into the corner and regarded Kabumpo
uneasily. They were as tall as Pompa but very thin and tube-like in
shape and their heads appeared to be a mass of flickering flames.

“Like giant candles,” reflected the Elegant Elephant, his curiosity
getting the better of his anger. He glanced about hurriedly. He was in a
huge white tiled chamber and the only lights came from the heads of its
singular occupants. A little distance away Prince Pompadore sat rubbing
first his knees and then his head.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“It’s another faller,” said one of the giant Candlemen to the other.
“Two fallers in one day! This is exciting—an ‘Ouch’ it calls itself!”

“I don’t care what it calls itself,” answered the second Candleman
crossly. “I call it mighty rude. How dare you blow out our king?”
shouted the hot-headed fellow, shaking his fist at the Elegant Elephant.
“Here, some of you, light him up!”

“Blow out your King?” gasped Kabumpo in amazement. Sure enough, he had.
There at his feet lay the King of the Candles, stiff and lifeless and
with never a head to bless himself with. While the Elegant Elephant
stared at the long candlestick figure a fat little Candleman rushed
forward and lit with his own head the small black wick sticking out of
the King’s collar.

Instantly the ruddy flame face of the King appeared, his eyes snapping
dangerously. Jumping to his feet he advanced toward Pompadore. “Is this
your Ouch?” spluttered the King, jerking his thumb at Kabumpo. “You must
take him away at once. I never was so put out in my life. Me, the
hand-dipped King of the whole Illumi Nation, to be blown out by a bumpy
creature without any headlight. Where’s _your_ headlight?” he demanded
fiercely, leaning over the Prince and dropping hot tallow down his neck.

Pompa jumped up in a hurry and backed toward Kabumpo. “Be careful how
you talk to him,” roared the Elegant Elephant, swaying backwards and
forward like a big ship. “He’s a Prince—the Prince of Pumperdink!”
Kabumpo tossed his trunk threateningly.

“A Prince?” spluttered the King, changing his tone instantly. “Well,
that’s different. A Prince can fall in on us any time and welcome but an
Ouch! Why bring this great clumsy Ouch along?” He rolled his eyes
mournfully at Kabumpo.

“He’s not an Ouch,” explained Pompa, who was gradually recovering from
the shock of his fall. “He is Kabumpo, an Elegant Elephant, and he blew
you out by mistake. Didn’t you, Kabumpo?”

“Purely an accident—nothing intentional, I assure you,” chuckled
Kabumpo. He was beginning to enjoy himself. “If there’s any more trouble
I’ll blow ’em all out,” he reflected comfortably, “for they’re nothing
but great big candles.”

Seeing their King in friendly conversation with the strangers, the other
Candlemen came closer—too close for comfort, in fact. They were always
leaning over and dropping hot tallow on a body and the heat from their
flaming heads was simply suffocating.

“Sing the National Air for them,” said the Candle King carelessly and
the Candlemen, in their queer crackling voices, sang the following song,
swaying rhythmically to the tune:

  “Flicker, flicker, Candlemen,
  Cheer our King and cheer again!
  Neat as wax and always bright,
  Cheer’s the King of candle light!

  Kindle lightly—dwindle slightly,
  Here we burn both day and nightly,
  Here we have good times to burn
  Till each one goes out in turn.”

“Thank you,” said Pompa, mopping his head with his silk handkerchief.

“Thank you very much,” Kabumpo groaned plaintively, for the great
elephant was nearly stifled.

“How is it you are so tall and thin?” asked Pompa after an awkward
pause.

“How is it you are so short and lumpy and unevenly dipped?” responded
King Cheer promptly. “If I were in your place,” he gave Kabumpo a
contemptuous glance, “I’d have myself redipped. Where are your wicks?
And how can you walk about without being lighted?”

“We’re not fireworks,” puffed Kabumpo indignantly and then he gave a
shrill scream. Ten Candlemen tottered and went out, falling to the
ground with a great clatter. Then Pompa leaped several feet in the air
and his scream put out five more.

“Stop!” cried King Cheer angrily. “Stand where you are!” But Kabumpo and
Pompa neither stopped nor stood where they were. The Elegant Elephant
rushed over to the Prince and threw his heavy robe over his head. And
just in time, for Pompa’s golden locks were a mass of flames. Then the
Prince tore off his velvet jacket and clapped it to Kabumpo’s tail,
which also was blazing merrily.

“Great Grump!” rumbled the Elegant Elephant furiously, when he had
extinguished Pompa and Pompa had extinguished him. “I’ll put you all out
for this!” He raised his trunk and pointed it straight at the Candlemen,
who cowered in the far corner.

“I was only trying to light you up,” wailed a little fellow, holding out
his hands pleadingly. “I thought that was your wick.” He pointed a
trembling finger at Kabumpo’s tail and another at Pompa’s head.

[Illustration: “I was only trying to light you up,” wailed the
Candleman]

“Wick!” snorted Kabumpo in a rage—while the Prince ran his hand
sorrowfully through his one luxuriant pompadour, of which nothing but a
short stubble remained—“Wick! What would we be doing with wicks?”

“I don’t think he meant any harm,” put in Pompadore, whose kind heart
was touched by the little Candleman’s terror. “And it wouldn’t help us
any.”

“Thought it was my Wick,” shrilled Kabumpo, glaring over his shoulder at
his poor scorched tail. “He’s a wick-ed little wretch. He’s ruined your
looks.”

“I know!” Pompa sighed dismally. “No one will want to marry me now. It’s
all coming true, Kabumpo, just as Count It Up said. Remember? ‘If a thin
Prince sets out on a fat elephant to find a Proper Princess, how many
yards of fringe will the elephant lose from his robe and how bald will
the Prince be at the end of the journey?’ And we’ve scarcely begun!”

“Great hay stacks!” whistled Kabumpo, his little eyes twinkling. “So I
have lost every bit of fringe from my robe and my tail and half the back
of my robe besides. This is nice, I must say.”

“We only tried to give you a warm welcome,” said the King timidly.

“Warm welcome! Well I should think you did,” sniffed Kabumpo. “How do we
get out of here?”

“Oh, that’s very simple,” said the King, cheering up. “Tommy, go for the
Snuffer.”

Before Kabumpo or Pompa realized what this would mean a little Candleman
named Tommy Tallow had returned with a tall black candle person. He
stepped to the side wall, quickly jerked a rope and down over Kabumpo
dropped a great brass snuffer and over the Prince another.

“That ought to put the cross old things out,” Pompa heard the King say
just before his snuffer reached the floor.

“This is terrible,” fumed the poor Prince, thumping on the sides of the
huge brass dome. “I might as well have stayed at home and disappeared
comfortably. My poor old father and my mother! I wonder where they are
now?”

Sunk in gloomy reflection, Pompadore leaned against the side of the
snuffer. And one cannot blame him for feeling dismal. The fall down the
deep passage, the shock of losing his hair and now imprisonment under a
stifling brass dome were enough to extinguish the hopes of the stoutest
hearted adventurer.

“I shall never find a Proper Princess!” wailed Pompa, tying and untying
his handkerchief. But just then there was a creak from without and the
great dome lifted as suddenly as it had fallen—so suddenly in fact that
Pompa fell flat on his back. There stood Kabumpo winding up the long
rope with his trunk and grumbling furiously all the while.

“Takes more than a snuffer to keep me down,” wheezed the Elegant
Elephant, hurrying over and jerking the Prince to his feet. “Three humps
of my shoulders and off she goes! What makes it so dark?”

“The Candlemen have all gone,” sighed Pompa, brushing his hand wearily
across his forehead. “All except that one.”

In a distant corner sat Tommy Tallow and the light from his head was the
only light in the great chamber. He was reading a book with tin leaves
and looked up in surprise when he saw the Elegant Elephant and Pompadore
approaching. Then he started to sputter and ran toward a bell rope at
the side of the chamber.

“Stop!” shouted Kabumpo, “or I’ll blow off your head!” At that the
little Candleman trembled so violently that his flame head almost went
out.

“Now suppose you show us the way out,” snapped the Elegant Elephant,
stamping one big foot until the floor trembled.

“You could burn out!” gasped Tommy faintly. “That’s what we do!”

“Don’t say out,” whispered Pompa anxiously. “We want to go away from
here,” he explained earnestly. “Back on the top of the ground, you
know.”

“Oh!” whistled Tommy Tallow, his face lighting up. “That’s easy—this
way, please!” He almost ran to a big door at one side of the room and
tugging it open, waved them through.

“Good-bye!” he called, slamming the door quickly behind them.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

Kabumpo and the Prince found themselves in a wide dim hallway. It
slanted up gradually and there were tall candle guards stationed about a
hundred yards apart all of the way.

“Are you going to a birthday party or a wedding?” asked the first guard,
as they passed him.

“Wedding,” sniffed Kabumpo. “Why?”

“Well, hardly any of the candles go out of here unless they’re needed
for a birthday or a wedding,” explained the guard, shifting his big
feet. “You’re mighty poorly made though. What kind of candles do you
call yourselves?”

“Roman,” chuckled Kabumpo with a wink. “We roam around,” he added
ponderously.

“Do all the candles used above ground come from here?” asked Pompa
curiously.

“Certainly,” replied the guard. “All candles come from Illumi—and they
don’t like to leave either because as soon as they strike the upper air
they shrink down to ordinary cake and candlestick size. Distressing,
isn’t it?”

“I suppose it must be,” smiled Pompadore. “Good-bye!” The guard touched
his flame hat and Kabumpo quickened his pace.

“I want air,” rumbled the great elephant, panting along as fast as he
could go. “I’ve seen and felt about all I care to see and feel of the
Illumi Nation.”

“So have I!” The Prince of Pumperdink touched his scorched locks and
sighed deeply. “I’m afraid Ozma will never marry me now, and Pumperdink
will disappear forever!”

“Don’t be a Gooch!” snapped the Elegant Elephant shortly. “Our
adventures have only begun.”

They passed the rest of the guards without further conversation, and
after about two hours came to the end of the long tiled passageway and
stepped upon firm ground again.

Kabumpo was terribly out of breath, for the whole way had been up hill.
For a full minute he stood sniffing the fresh night air. Then, turning
around, he looked for the opening through which they had come. Not a
sign of the passage anywhere!

“That’s curious,” puffed the Elegant Elephant. “But never mind. We don’t
want to go back anyway.”

“I should say not,” gasped the Prince wearily. “Where are we now,
Kabumpo?”

“Still in the Gilliken country, I think, but headed in the right
direction. All we have to do is to keep going South,” said the Elegant
Elephant cheerfully.

“But we’ve had nothing to eat since morning,” objected Pompadore.

“That’s so,” agreed Kabumpo, scratching his head thoughtfully, “and not
a house in sight!”

“But I smell something cooking,” insisted the Prince, sniffing hungrily.

“So do I,” said the Elegant Elephant, lifting his trunk, “and it smells
like soup. Let’s follow our noses, Pompa, my boy.”

“Yours is the longest,” laughed the Prince, as Kabumpo swung him upon
the elephant’s back. So, guided by the fragrant whiffs that came
floating toward them, Kabumpo set out through the trees.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 12
                       The Delicious Sea of Soup


“Strange that we don’t see any houses,” puffed Kabumpo, swinging along
rapidly.

“I hear water,” answered Pompa, peering out over Kabumpo’s head, “and
there it is!”

Rippling silver under the rays of the moon, which shone brightly, lay a
great inland sea. The trees had thinned out, and a smooth, sandy beach
stretched down to the shore. A slight mist hung in the air and all
around was the delicious fragrance of vegetable soup.

“Somebody’s making soup,” sighed the Prince, “but who, and where?”

“Never mind, Pompa,” wheezed the Elegant Elephant, walking down to the
water’s edge, “perhaps you can catch some fish, and while you cook them
I’ll go back and eat some leaves.”

With a jerk of his trunk, Kabumpo pulled a length of the heavy silver
thread from his torn robe and handed it up to Pompa. Fastening a jeweled
pin to one end, the Prince cast his line far out into the waves. At the
first tug he drew it in.

“What is it?” asked the Elegant Elephant, as Pompa pulled the dripping
line over his trunk.

“Oh, how delicious! How wonderful!” exclaimed the once fastidious Prince
of Pumperdink.

Kabumpo could hear him munching away with relish.

“What is it?” he asked again.

“A carrot! A lovely, red, delightful, tender carrot!”

“Carrot! Who ever heard of a sea carrot?” grunted Kabumpo. “I’m afraid
you’re not yourself, my boy. Let me see it.”

Snaps and crunches, as Pompa consumed his strange catch, were the only
answer, and in real alarm the Elegant Elephant moved away from the
shore, and in doing so bumped against a white sign, stuck in the sand.

“Please Don’t Fall In,” directed the sign politely, “_It Spoils The
Soup_.”

“Soup!” sputtered Kabumpo. Then another sign caught his eye: “_Soup
Sea—Salted To Taste—Help Yourself_.”

“Come down—come down here directly!” cried the Elegant Elephant,
snatching the Prince from his back. “Here’s the soup—a whole sea full.
Now all you need is a bowl.”

Swallowing convulsively the last bit of carrot, Pompa stood staring out
over the tossing, smoking soup sea. Every now and then a bone or a
vegetable would bob out of the waves, and the poor hungry Prince of
Pumperdink thought he had never seen a more lovely sight in his life.

“We’ll probably be awarded a china medal for this,” chuckled the Elegant
Elephant. “Won’t old Pumper’s eyes stick out when we tell him about it?
But now for a bowl!”

Swinging his trunk gently, Kabumpo walked up the white beach, and had
not gone more than a dozen steps before he came to a cluster of huge
shells. He turned one over curiously. “Why, it’s a soup bowl,” whistled
the Elegant Elephant. He rushed back with it to Pompadore, who still
stood dreamily surveying the soup.

“I never thought I’d be so thrilled by a common soup bowl,” thought
Kabumpo, staring at the Prince in amusement. He stepped out on a rock
and dipped up a bowl of the hot liquid.

“Here! Drink!” commanded the Elegant Elephant, handing the bowl to the
Prince. “Drink to the Proper Princess and the future Queen of
Pumperdink.”

“Don’t go,” begged the Prince between gulps, “I shall want
two—three—several!”

Kabumpo laughed good naturedly. “This is the pleasantest thing that has
happened to us. Here! Have another!”

Then both Pompa and the Elegant Elephant gasped, for out of the bubbling
waves arose the most curious figure that they had ever seen—the most
curious and the jolliest. He was made entirely of soup bones, and his
head was a monster cabbage, with a soup bowl set jauntily on the side
for a cap. For a cabbage head he sang very well and this was the song to
which he kept time by waving a silver ladle:

  “Ho! I am the King of the Soup Sea,
    Yes, I am the King of the Deep;
  My crown is a bowl and my sceptre a ladle,
  I fell in the soup when I fell from the cradle,
    And find it exceedingly cheap!

  I stir it up nightly, and pepper it rightly—
    A liquid perfection you’ll find.
  And here is a roll, sirs,
  So fill up your bowl, sirs,
    And think of me after you’ve dined.”

When he came to “dined,” the Soup King gave a playful leap and
disappeared backward into the waves.

Pompa rubbed his eyes and looked at Kabumpo to see whether he had been
dreaming.

“Oh!” cried Kabumpo, his eyes as round as little saucers. Floating
gently toward them were two large, crisp, buttered rolls.

“The most charming King I’ve ever met,” chuckled Kabumpo, scooping up
the rolls and handing them to Pompa.

Pompa, staring dreamily ahead, first took a drink of soup, then a nibble
of roll, too happy for speech. Four times the Elegant Elephant refilled
the bowl. Then, his stomach full for the first time since they had left
Pumperdink, the Prince stretched himself out on the sands.

“Now,” puffed the Elegant Elephant ceremoniously, “if you think you’ve
had quite enough, I’ll snatch a few bites myself.” Chuckling softly he
made his way back to some young trees, and dined luxuriously off their
tops.

When he returned to the beach, Pompa was fast asleep, and for a few
moments Kabumpo was inclined to sleep himself. “But then,” he reflected,
“Ozma may require a lot of coaxing before she consents to marry Pompa,
and two of our precious seven days are gone. It is plainly my duty to
save Pumperdink. Besides, when Pompa is married he will be King of Oz!
Then I, the Elegant Elephant, will be the biggest figure at Court.”

Kabumpo threw up his trunk and trumpeted softly to the stars. Then,
giving himself a big shake and a little stretch, he lifted the sleeping
Prince to his back and started on again. In about two hours he had
circled the Soup Sea and, guiding himself by a particularly bright and
twinkling star, ran swiftly and steadily toward the South.

As the first streaks of dawn appeared in the sky, Kabumpo passed through
a quaint little Gilliken village. He snatched a bag of rolls from a
doorstep and stuck them into his pocket, but he did not stop, and so
fast asleep was the little village that except for a few wideawake
roosters, no one knew how important a person had passed through.

The sky grew pinker and pinker. You have no idea how pink the morning
skies in Oz can be. Just as the sun got out of bed, the Elegant Elephant
came to the wonderful Emerald City itself, shining and fairylike as a
dream under the lovely colors of sunrise. Kabumpo paused and took a deep
breath. Even he was impressed, and it took a good bit to impress him. He
reached back and touched Pompa with his trunk.

“Wake up, my boy,” whispered Kabumpo in a trembling voice. “Wake up and
put on your crown, for we have come to the city of your Proper
Princess.”

Pompa sat up and rubbed his eyes in amazement. Without a word, he took
the crown Kabumpo handed up to him, and set it on his scorched, golden
head. Accustomed as Pompa was to grandeur, for Pumperdink is very
magnificent in its funny old-fashioned way, he could not help but gasp
at Ozma’s fair city. The lovely green parks, the houses studded with
countless emeralds, the shining marble streets, filled the Prince with
wonder.

“I don’t believe she’ll ever marry me,” he stuttered, beginning to feel
quite frightened at his boldness.

“Nonsense,” wheezed Kabumpo faintly. He was beginning to have misgivings
himself. “Sit up now! Look your best, and I’ll carry you straight into
the palace gardens.”

No one was awake. Even the Soldier with the Green Whiskers lay snoring
against a tree, so that Kabumpo stole unobserved into the Royal Gardens.

“I don’t see the palace,” whispered Pompa anxiously. “Wouldn’t it show
above the trees?”

“It ought to,” said Kabumpo, wrinkling up his forehead. “But look! Who
is that?”

Pompa’s heart almost stopped, and even Kabumpo’s gave a queer jump. On a
golden bench, just ahead, sat the loveliest person either had seen in
all of their eighteenth birthdays.

“Ozma,” gasped the Elegant Elephant, as soon as he had breath enough to
whisper. “What luck! You must ask her at once.”

“Not now,” begged the Prince of Pumperdink, as Kabumpo unceremoniously
helped him to the ground. His knees shook, his tongue stuck to the roof
of his mouth. He had never proposed to a Fairy Princess before in his
whole life. Then all at once he had an idea. Slipping his hand into the
Elegant Elephant’s pocket, he drew out the magic mirror. “I’ll see if
she’s a princess,” stuttered Pompa.

The elephant shook his head angrily but was afraid to speak again lest
he disturb the quiet figure on the bench.

“And I’ll not propose unless she is the one,” said Pompa, tip-toeing
toward the bench. Without making a sound he suddenly held the mirror
before the startled and lovely lady.

“Glinda, good Sorceress of Oz,” flashed the mirror promptly.

“Great gooseberries!” cried Glinda, springing to her feet in alarm and
swinging around on Pompa. “Where did you come from?” After studying a
whole day and night in her magic books, Glinda had returned to the
Emerald City to try to perfect her plan for rescuing Ozma.

“From Pumperdink, your Highness,” puffed Kabumpo, lunging forward
anxiously. He, too, had seen the words in the mirror and the fear of
offending a Sorceress made him quake in his skin—which was loose enough
to quake in, dear knows!

“A thousand pardons!” cried the Prince, dropping on one knee and taking
off his crown. “We were seeking Princess Ozma, the Fairy Ruler of Oz.”

Glinda looked from Kabumpo to the Prince and controlled a desire to
laugh. The Elegant Elephant’s torn and scorched robe hung in rags from
his shoulders and his jeweled headpiece was dangling over one ear.
Pompa’s clothes were equally shabby and his almost bald head with a lock
sticking up here and there gave him a singular and comical appearance.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“Pumperdink?” mused Glinda, tapping her foot thoughtfully. Then, like a
flash she remembered the entry in the Book of Records—“The Prince of
Pumperdink is journeying toward the Emerald City.”

“Why did you want to see Ozma?” asked Glinda anxiously. Perhaps these
two strangers could throw some light on the mysterious disappearance of
the Royal Palace.

“Our country was threatened with disappearance and I thought—”

“He thought Ozma might help us,” finished the Elegant Elephant
breathlessly. He did not believe in telling strange Sorceresses about
everything. Now if Glinda had not been so occupied with the
disappearance of the palace and all the dearest people in Oz, she might
have been more curious about the disappearance of Pumperdink. As it was
she just shook her head sadly. “I’m afraid Ozma cannot help you,” she
said, “for Ozma herself has disappeared—Ozma and everyone in the
palace.”

“Disappeared!” trumpeted the Elegant Elephant, sitting down with a thud.
“Great Grump! The thing’s getting to be a habit!”

What was to become of Pompa now? Would he never be King, nor he,
Kabumpo, ever be known as the most Elegant Elephant in Oz? Had they made
the long journey in vain?

“Where? When?” gasped Prince Pompadore.

“Night before last,” explained Glinda. “I’ve been consulting my magic
books ever since but have only been able to discover one fact.”

“What is that?” asked Kabumpo faintly.

“That they are in Ev,” said Glinda, “and that a giant carried them off.
I came here early this morning to see whether I could discover anything
new. Would you care to see where the castle stood?”

“Did he carry the castle off, too?” shuddered Pompa. Glinda nodded
gloomily and led them over to the great hole in the center of the
gardens.

For a minute she stood watching them. Then, glancing at a golden sun
dial set in the center of a lovely flower bed, she murmured half to
herself, “I must be off!” Next instant she clapped her hands and down
swept a shining chariot drawn by white swans.

“Good-bye!” called Glinda, springing in lightly. “I’m off to Ev to try
my magic against the giant’s. Wait here and when I’ve helped Ozma
perhaps I can help you!”

“Can’t we help? Can’t we go?” cried Pompa, running a few steps after the
chariot, but Glinda, already high in the air, did not hear him and in
the wink of an eye the chariot and its lovely occupant had melted into
the pink morning clouds.

“Now what shall we do?” groaned the Prince, letting his arms drop
heavily at his sides.

“Do!” snorted Kabumpo. “The thing for you to do is to act like a Prince
instead of a Gooch! There are other ways of getting to Ev than by
chariot.”

The thought of Kabumpo in Glinda’s chariot made Pompa smile in spite of
himself.

“There! That’s better,” said the Elegant Elephant more pleasantly.

“Now, what’s to hinder us from going to Ev and rescuing Princess Ozma?
She couldn’t help marrying you if you saved her from a giant, could
she?”

“But could I save her—that’s the question,” muttered the Prince, looking
uneasily at the yawning cavity where the castle had stood. “This giant
must be a terrible fellow!”

“Pooh!” said Kabumpo airily. “Who’s afraid of giants? I’ll wind my trunk
around his leg and pull him to earth. Then you can dispatch the villain.
We must get you a sword, though,” he added softly.

“All right! I’ll do it!” cried the Prince, throwing out his chest. The
very thought of killing a giant made him feel about ten feet high. “Do
you know the way to Ev, Kabumpo? We’ll have to hurry, because unless I
marry Ozma before the seven days are up my poor old father and mother
and all of Pumperdink will disappear forever.”

You see, even Pompa had now got it into his head that Ozma was the
Proper Princess mentioned in the scroll.

“We’ll start at once,” sighed the Elegant Elephant a bit ruefully. “I’ve
had no sleep and precious little to eat but when you are King of Oz you
can reward old Kabumpo as he deserves.”

“Everything I have will be yours,” cried the Prince, giving the
elephant, or as much of him as he could grasp, a sudden hug. Then each
took a long drink from one of the bubbling fountains and, munching the
rolls Kabumpo had picked up in the Gilliken village, the two adventurers
stole out of the gardens.

As they reached the gates, Kabumpo paused and his little eyes twinkled
with delight. There lay the Soldier with the Green Whiskers, snoring
tremendously and beside him was a long, sharp sword with an emerald
handle. “Just what we need,” chuckled Kabumpo, snatching it up in his
trunk. Then out through the gates and swiftly through the still sleeping
city swept the Elegant Elephant and the Prince of Pumperdink, off to
rescue Princess Ozma, a prisoner in Ev!

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 13
                           On The Road To Ev


In their journey to Ev, Peg and Wag had a night’s start of Kabumpo and
Prince Pompadore, but towards morning Wag’s ears began to droop with
sleep.

“Gotta natch a sap, Peg,” Wag muttered thickly, as they halted on a
little hill.

“Natch a sap? What’s that?” asked the Wooden Doll anxiously. Wag made no
answer—just flopped on his side and in a minute was asleep and snoring
tremendously.

“Oh!” whispered Peg, pulling herself gently from beneath the sleeping
rabbit. “He meant snatch a nap.”

She laughed softly and seated herself under a small tree. The birds were
beginning to waken and their singing filled Peg Amy with delight. “How
wonderful it all is,” she murmured, gazing up at the little ruffly pink
clouds. “How wonderful it is to be alive!”

“Hello! Mr. Robin!” she called gaily, as a bird flew to a low bush
beside her. “Are your children quite well?”

The robin swung backward and forward on his swaying branch; then burst
into his best morning song.

“Oh!” cried Peg Amy, clasping her wooden hands, “I’ve heard that before!
But how could I?” she reasoned, “I’m only a Wooden Doll and this is the
first morning I have been alive. But then, how did I know it was a
robin?”

Peg rubbed her wooden forehead in perplexity, for it was all very
puzzling indeed. Below their little hill stretched the lovely land of
the Winkies, with its great green forests and little yellow villages.
The wind sent the leaves dancing above Peg’s head and the early sunbeams
made lovely patterns on the grass.

“I’ve seen it before!” gasped the Wooden Doll breathlessly. “The trees,
the birds, the houses and everything!” Springing to her feet she ran
awkwardly from bush to tree, touching the leaves and bending over the
flowers as if they were old friends. Had it not been for the squeaking
of her wooden joints, Peg would almost have forgotten she was a Wooden
Doll, for at the sight of the lovely green growing things something warm
and sunny seemed to waken in her stiff wooden breast. “I’ve been alive
before,” said Peg Amy over and over.

Suddenly, through the still morning air, came a loud, shrill laugh. Peg,
who had been standing with her cheek pressed closely against a small
tree, swung around quickly—so quickly in fact that she fell over and lay
in a ridiculously bent double position before the new-comers.

It was Kabumpo and the Prince of Pumperdink. Traveling by the same road
Wag had chosen but much more rapidly, the Elegant Elephant had come at
sunrise to the little hill. He had been watching Peg for some time, and
when he saw her dance awkwardly over to the tree, he could no longer
restrain himself.

“Get out your mirror!” roared Kabumpo, shaking all over with mirth.
“Here is your Proper Princess, Pompa, my boy—as royal a maiden as the
country boasts. Ho, ho! Kerumph!”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“Don’t be ridiculous,” snapped Pompa, looking down curiously at the
comical figure of Peg Amy.

“But she’s so funny!” gasped Kabumpo, the tears rolling down his big
cheeks.

“Who’s funny?” demanded an angry voice and Wag, who had been awakened by
Kabumpo’s loud roars, hopped up, his ears quivering with rage.

“I’ll pull your long nose for you!” cried Wag, advancing threateningly.
“Don’t you dare make fun of Peg. What are you, anyway?”

“Great Grump!” choked Kabumpo, without answering Wag’s inquiry. “What
kind of a rabbit is this?”

“A clawing, chawing, scratching kind—as you’ll soon find out!” Wag drew
himself up into a ball and prepared to launch himself at Kabumpo’s head,
when Peg straightened up and caught him by the ear.

“Don’t, Wag, please,” she begged. “He couldn’t help laughing. I am
funny. You know I am!” she sighed a bit ruefully.

“You’re not funny to me,” blustered Wag, still glaring at Kabumpo. “Who
does he think he is?”

“I?” sniffed Kabumpo, spreading out his ears complacently, “I am the
Elegant Elephant of Pumperdink. Notice my pearls; gaze upon my robe.”

“You don’t look very elegant to me,” snorted Wag. “You look more like a
tramp. Says he’s a lelegant nelephant from Dumperpink,” he whispered
scornfully to Peg.

“And what’s that you’ve got on your back?” he called, with a wave of his
paw at Pompa. “A dunce?”

“Dunce!” screamed Kabumpo furiously. “This is the Prince of Pumperdink,
you good-for-nothing lettuce-eater! What do you mean by laughing at
royalty?”

“Royalty! Oh, ha, ha, ha!” roared Wag, rolling over and over in the
grass. “But he’s so funny!” He paused to take another look at the
Prince. At this Kabumpo lunged forward, his eyes snapping angrily.

“Stop!” begged the Prince, tugging Kabumpo by the ear. “You were rude to
his friend that—er—doll, so you must expect him to be rude to me. It’s
all your fault,” he added reproachfully.

“Are you a Prince?” asked Peg Amy, staring up at Pompa with her round,
painted eyes.

“Of course he’s a Prince. Didn’t I say so before? Who is that hoppy
creature?”

“That’s Wag—such a dear fellow.” Peg smiled confidently at Kabumpo and
he was suddenly ashamed of himself for laughing at her.

“Well, he needn’t get waggish with me,” grumbled the Elegant Elephant in
a lower voice.

“Oh, don’t quarrel!” begged Peg. “It’s such a lovely morning and you
both look so interesting.”

Kabumpo eyed the big Wooden Doll attentively. It was smart of her to
think him interesting. He cleared his throat gruffly.

“You’re not as funny as you look,” he admitted grandly, which was the
nearest to an apology he had ever come. “But what are you doing here and
why are you alive?”

“I don’t know,” explained Peg apologetically. “It just happened last
night.”

“It did? Well, where are you going?”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

Wag still looked cross and his nose was twitching violently, but Peg
politely answered Kabumpo’s question.

“We’re on our way to Ev to try to help Ozma,” said the Wooden Doll,
folding her hands quaintly.

“Why so are _we_!” cried Pompa, sliding down Kabumpo’s trunk in a hurry.

“How do _you_ expect to help her?” grunted Kabumpo, looking at Wag and
Peg contemptuously.

“Don’t mind him,” begged Pompa, running up to Peg Amy. “Tell me
everything you know about Ozma. Is she pretty?”

“Beautiful,” breathed Peg, looking up at the sky. “Beautiful and lovely
and good. That’s why I want to help her.”

“Then I sha’n’t mind marrying her at all,” said Pompa, with a great sigh
of relief.

“Gooch!” roared Kabumpo angrily—“Telling everything you know!”

“Do you mean to say you think Ozma would marry _you_?” gasped Wag,
sitting up with a jerk. “Oh, my wocks and hoop soons!” His ears crossed
and uncrossed and with a final gurgle of disbelief Wag fell back on the
grass.

“Well, is there anything so strange in that?” asked Pompa in a hurt
voice. “I’ve _got_ to marry her,” he added, desperately appealing to Peg
Amy. And while Kabumpo stood sulkily swinging his trunk the Prince told
Peg the whole story of the magic scroll.

“I said you looked interesting,” breathed Peg, as Pompa paused for
breath. “Did you hear that, Wag? Unless he marries a Proper Princess in
a proper time his whole Kingdom will disappear—his Kingdom and everyone
in it!”

“But how do you know Ozma is the Proper Princess?” asked Wag, chewing a
blade of grass. “The scroll didn’t say Ozma, did it?”

“Kabumpo thinks Ozma is the Proper Princess,” explained Pompadore,
nodding toward the Elegant Elephant, “and he’s usually right!”

“Humph!” sniffed Wag. “Well, maybe you are a Prince. You’re not really
bad looking if you had some fur on your head,” he remarked more amiably.
“What happened? Somebody pull it out?”

“Oh, Wag!” murmured Peg Amy, in a shocked voice.

“Burned off,” sighed Pompa, and proceeded to tell of their fall into the
Illumi Nation. He even told them about the Soup Sea and of their meeting
with Glinda, the Good.

“Don’t you care,” said the big Wooden Doll, as Pompa mournfully rubbed
his scorched head. “It will soon grow again and I don’t see how Ozma
could help loving you—you’re so tall, and so polite.” This kind little
speech affected Pompa so deeply that he dropped on one knee and raised
Peg’s wooden hand to his lips.

“The creature has a lot of sense,” mumbled Kabumpo, with his mouth full
of leaves.

“Creature!” exclaimed Wag, sitting up straight and opening his eyes
wide. “Her name is Peg Amy, Mr. Nelegant Lelephant.”

“Oh, all right,” sniffed Kabumpo hastily. “But you’ll have to admit
she’s curious.”

“Of course she is,” said Wag complacently. “That’s why I like her. She
wasn’t cut out to be a beauty, but to be companionable, and she is. When
you’ve known Peg as long as I have”—Wag paused impressively—“you’ll be
proud to carry her on your back, Mr. Long Nose!”

“I’ve only known her a few minutes and I adore her!” said Pompa
heartily. “Mistress Peg and I are good friends already.” Peg curtseyed
awkwardly. “I’ve done this before,” she reflected curiously to herself.

“Shall we tell them about Ruggedo?” Peg asked aloud, turning to Wag.

“Yes, do!” begged Pompa. “Tell us something about yourselves. I never
saw so large a rabbit in my life as Wag and as for _you_!”—Pompa paused,
for Wag was eying him resentfully—“you are the largest, most delightful
doll I have ever met, the only alive one, I might say. How did you know
about Ozma’s disappearance and how were you going to help her?”

“Mixed Magic!” whispered Wag, crossing his ears and his eyes as well.
“Mixed Magic!”

“Magic?” gulped Kabumpo, swallowing a branch of sticky leaves whole.
“Have _you_ any magic?”

“A whole box full,” sighed Peg Amy, patting her pocket softly.

“In that box is the magic that brought Peg to life!” shrilled Wag,
pointing a trembling paw. “In that box is the magic that made us grow.
In that box is the magic that caused Ozma’s castle to disappear—!”

[Illustration: “In that box is the magic that brought Peg to life!”
shrilled Wag]

“Great Grump!” whistled Kabumpo. “How fortunate we fell in with them,
Pompa.” He held out his trunk. “Give me the box, my good girl, and you
shall be fittingly rewarded when Pompa is King of Oz.”

“That’s a long time to wait,” chuckled Wag, tickled by Kabumpo’s
outrageous impudence. “No, Peg and I will just keep the box, thank you.”

“Of course you will,” said Prince Pompadore, frowning at Kabumpo. “But
as we are both bound on the same errand, let us travel together. Kabumpo
and I are going to kill the giant who ran off with the castle.”

The Prince held up his long sword. “And if you can help us, I shall
thank you from the bottom of my heart.” Pompa stretched out his hand
impulsively.

“Well, that’s more like,” said Wag, pulling his ear thoughtfully. “And
four heads are better than two!”

“Of course we’ll help you!” cried Peg Amy. “The trouble is, we don’t
know ourselves how to open the magic box, but we do know that Ruggedo is
in Ev and when we get there we will make him open the box and undo all
this mischief.”

“You mentioned him before,” said Kabumpo, holding up his trunk. “Who is
Ruggedo and what has he to do with Ozma?”

“Ruggedo is a wicked little gnome,” explained Peg Amy gravely. “He used
to be King of the Gnomes but he was banished from his Kingdom and Ozma
gave him a little cottage in the Emerald City. He pretended to live
there, but instead he tunneled a cave right underneath the palace. Wag
helped him dig.” Peg waved her hand at the rabbit. “And he was the only
one who would stay with him. Then Ruggedo stole me. I was only a small,
unalive doll, belonging to Trot, a little girl who lives with Ozma.
Ruggedo stole me just to shake,” continued Peg shuddering.

“That’s why I’m going to pound his curly toes off!” screamed Wag,
beginning to hop about at the very thought of Ruggedo.

“But how did you come to be so large and alive?” asked Kabumpo, who was
growing more interested.

“Well, one night”—Peg dropped her voice to a whisper—“One night Ruggedo
found this box of Mixed Magic hidden in the cave and then—”

“Then,” screamed Wag hoarsely, “in some way we don’t understand, Peg and
I grew big, Peg came alive, the top blew off the cave—and depend upon
it, whatever’s happened to Ozma and her palace happened from something
in that box. It’s all Ruggedo’s fault. When I catch him”—Wag began to
wiggle his nose and paw his whiskers—“my wocks and hoop soons! I’ll
pound his curly toes off!”

“And I’ll help you!” cried Kabumpo heartily. He could not help but
admire such spirit. “Come on—let’s start. You may ride on my back with
Pompa if you care to,” finished the Elegant Elephant with a sidelong
glance at Peg.

“Oh, thank you,” smiled the Wooden Doll, “but Wag will carry me.”

“I always carry Peg,” said Wag jealously. “I’ve known her the longest.”

“Oh, all right,” sniffed Kabumpo, lifting Pompa up, “but if she ever
_wants_ to ride on my back she may.”

“Humph!” grunted Wag, as the Wooden Doll settled herself on his
shoulders. “Isn’t he generous!”

Peg pulled down one of Wag’s long ears. “It was kindly meant,” whispered
the Wooden Doll merrily.

“Ready?” puffed Kabumpo, backing out into the road. “We’ve no time to
lose, for if we lose time we lose our Kingdom too. Forward for
Pumperdink!”

“All right!” cried Wag, giving a great leap. “Follow me!” And off hopped
the giant bunny so fast that Kabumpo had to stretch his legs even to
keep him in sight.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 14
                        Terror In Ozma’s Palace


Meanwhile strange things had been happening in Ozma’s palace. For the
people inside it had been a very mean time indeed. During Ruggedo’s run
to the mountains of Ev, they had almost been shaken out of their wits
and when he sat down upon the mountain top there was not a person nor
piece of furniture standing in the whole palace. Courtiers and servants
who were not knocked senseless lay shaking in their beds or huddled in
corners and under sofas and chairs, just as they had fallen when the
first terrible crash lifted the palace into the air.

Ozma’s four poster bed had collapsed, pinning the little Fairy Princess
under a mass of silk hangings and curtain poles. Being a fairy, Ozma was
unhurt, but not being able to move, nor to reach her Magic Belt or even
make herself heard, she was forced to lie perfectly still and wait for
help.

In Dorothy’s sitting room there was not a sound but the ticking of the
Copper Man’s machinery. Trot and Betsy Bobbin had knocked their heads
together so smartly that they were unconscious. Sir Hokus had been
hurled violently against Tik Tok and the poor Knight had known nothing
since. Dorothy lay quietly beside him, an ugly bruise on her forehead,
where the emerald clock had landed.

“Scraps!” called the Scarecrow, sometime after the rumble and tumble had
ceased, “are you there?”

“No, here!” gasped the Patch Work Girl, sitting up cautiously. She had
bounced all around the room and finally rolled into a corner quite close
to the Scarecrow himself. She put out her cotton hand as she spoke and
touched him.

“How fortunate we are unbreakable,” said the Scarecrow, pressing her
cotton fingers convulsively and trying to peer out through the intense
blackness of the room. “What happened?”

“Earthquake!” shivered Scraps. “And maybe it’s not over!”

“Must have knocked everybody silly,” said the Scarecrow huskily.

“Except us,” giggled the Patch Work Girl. “We couldn’t be knocked silly
’cause we were silly in the first place.”

“Now, don’t make jokes, please,” begged the Scarecrow. “This is serious.
Besides, I want to think.”

“All right,” said Scraps cheerfully. “I don’t—but I’m going to feel
around and see if I can find the matches. There used to be some candles
on the mantel and—” As she spoke, Scraps fell headlong over Sir Hokus of
Pokes and as luck would have it her cotton fingers closed over a small
gold match box. Picking herself up carefully, Scraps struck a match on
Sir Hokus’ armor and looked anxiously around the room.

“They need water,” said the Patch Work Girl, wrinkling up her patchwork
forehead.

“So will you if you don’t blow out that match!” cried the Scarecrow in
alarm, for Scraps continued to hold the match till it burned to the very
end. He jumped up clumsily and puffed out the light just in time. Scraps
promptly lit another and as she did so the Scarecrow saw a tall blue
candle sticking out of the waste basket.

“Here,” said the Straw Man nervously. “Light this and stand it on the
mantel there.” By the flickering candle light the Scarecrow and Scraps
tried to set Dorothy’s room to rights. They dragged the mattress from
the bed-room and placed the little girls on it, side by side. Sir Hokus
was too heavy to move, so they merely loosened his armor and put a sofa
cushion under his head. Then, just as Scraps was going for some water,
the room began to tremble again.

“I told you it wasn’t over,” cried Scraps, flinging both arms about the
Scarecrow’s neck. And as they rocked to and fro she shouted merrily:

  “Shaker! Shaker! Who art thee,
  To shake a castle like a tree?
  Shaker! Shaker! Go away
  And come again some other day!”

“Now, Scraps,” begged the Scarecrow, steadying the Patch Work Girl with
one hand and catching hold of a table with the other, “everything
depends on us. Do try to keep your head!”

“Keep my head!” shrilled Scraps, as the room tilted over and slid all
the furniture sideways. “I’ll be lucky if I keep my feet. Whoopee! Here
we go!” And go they did with a rush into the farthest corner. Slowly the
room righted itself and everything grew quiet again.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“I know what I’m going to do,” said the Scarecrow determinedly. “Before
anything else happens I’m going to see what has happened already.”

“How?” asked Scraps, bouncing to her feet.

[Illustration: Dorothy and Toto]

“The Magic Picture,” gasped the Scarecrow. “You bring the candle,
Scraps, like a good girl. You’re less liable to take fire than I am.
Then we’ll come back and help Dorothy and the others.”

“Good idea,” said Scraps, taking the candle from the mantel.
Breathlessly the two tip-toed along the hall to Ozma’s apartment. On the
wall in one of Ozma’s rooms hangs the most magic possession in Oz. It is
a picture representing a country scene, but when you ask it where a
certain person is, immediately he is shown in the picture and also what
he is doing at the time.

“So,” murmured the Scarecrow, as they gained the room in safety, “if it
tells where other people are, it ought to tell us where we are
ourselves.”

Drawing aside the curtain that covered the picture the Scarecrow
demanded loudly, “Where are we?”

Scraps held the candle so that its flickering rays fell directly on the
picture. Then both jumped in earnest, for in a flash the face of
Ruggedo, the wicked old gnome King, appeared, on his head a great, green
towering sort of hat.

The Scarecrow seized the candle from Scraps and held it closer to the
picture. He squinted up one eye and almost rubbed his painted nose off.

“Great Kinkajous!” spluttered the Straw Man distractedly. “That’s a
palace on his head—an Emerald palace—Ozma’s palace!”

“But how?” asked Scraps, her suspender button eyes almost dropping out.
“He’s nothing but a gnome. He’s—”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

Before Scraps could finish her sentence the palace began to tilt forward
and they both fell upon their faces. Then the picture jerked loose and
fell with a clattering slam on their heads, followed by such ornaments
as had not already tumbled down before. Through it all Scraps held the
candle high in air and fortunately it did not go out, despite the
turmoil.

In a few moments the palace stopped rocking and a muffled call from Ozma
sent the Scarecrow and Scraps hurrying to her bedside. After some
trouble, for they were both flimsily made, they managed to free the
little Princess of Oz from the poles and bed curtains.

“Goodness!” sighed Ozma, looking around at the terrible confusion.

“Not goodness, but badness,” said the Scarecrow, settling his hat
firmly, “and Ruggedo is at the bottom of it and of us.” He quickly
explained to Ozma what he had seen in the Magic Picture.

Slipping on a silk robe, Ozma followed them into the next room. When the
picture had been rehung, they all looked again. This time Ozma asked
where the palace was. Immediately the old Gnome King appeared and there
could be no mistake—the palace was set squarely on his head. The picture
did not show the real size of Ruggedo nor of the palace, but it was
enough.

“He must have sprung into a giant,” gasped Ozma, scarcely believing her
eyes. “Oh, what shall we do?”

“The first thing to do is to keep him quiet. Every time he shakes his
head it tumbles us about so,” complained the Scarecrow, plumping up the
straw in his chest. “And we must look after Dorothy and Betsy and Trot.”

“And Sir Hokus,” added the Patch Work Girl, flinging out one hand. “He’s
yearning to slay a giant. ’Way for the Giant Killer!”

Without waiting for the others Scraps ran back to Dorothy’s sitting
room. Lighting another candle, for all the lights in the palace were
out, Ozma and the Scarecrow followed.

“Odds Goblins!” gasped the Knight, as they entered. He was sitting up
with one hand to his head.

“Not goblins—giants!” cried the Patch Work Girl, with a bounce, while
Ozma ran for some water to restore her three little friends.

“Where?” puffed the Knight, lurching to his feet.

“Beneath you,” said the Scarecrow, clutching at a wisp of straw that
stuck out of his head. “Say! Some one wind up Tik Tok. There’s a lot of
thinking to be done here and his head works very well, even if it has
wheels inside.”

Sir Hokus, though still a bit dizzy, hastened to wind up all the Copper
Man’s keys.

“Thanks,” said Tik Tok immediately. “Give me a lift up, Ho-kus.” The
Knight obligingly helped the Copper Man to his feet. Then both stared in
amazement at the topsy turvy room. Even in the dim candle light they
could see that something very serious had occurred.

Jack Pumpkinhead picked himself up out of a corner, looking very much
dazed.

[Illustration: Jack Pumpkinhead]

Just then Dorothy opened her eyes, and Betsy and Trot, spluttering from
the water the Patch Work Girl was pouring on their heads, sat up and
wanted to know what had happened. In a few words Ozma told them what the
magic picture had revealed.

  “Ruggedo to a giant’s grown
    And set us on his head.
  We’ve made some headway, you’ll admit,
    Since we have gone to bed!”

—shouted Scraps, who was growing more and more excited.

“Rug-ge-do will nev-er re-form,” ticked the Copper Man sadly.

“But what are we going to do?” wailed Dorothy. “Suppose he leans over
and spills us all out?”

“I shall take my sword,” said Sir Hokus, speaking very determinedly, and
backing toward the window as he spoke, “climb down, and slay the
villain.” He threw one leg over the sill.

“Come back!” cried Ozma. “Dear Sir Hokus, don’t you realize that if you
kill Ruggedo he will fall down and break us to pieces? Besides, wicked
as he is, I could not have him killed.”

“Yes, we should be all broken up if you did that,” sighed the Scarecrow.
“We must try something else.”

Reluctantly, the Knight dropped back into the room. “Close the windows,”
ordered Ozma with a little shudder.

“I’ve thought of a plan,” said Tik Tok, in his slow, painstaking way. “A
ve-ry good plan.”

“Tell us what it is,” begged Dorothy. “And Oh, Tik Tok, hurry!”

“Eggs,” said the Copper Man solemnly.

“Oh!” gasped Dorothy, “I remember. Eggs are the only things in Oz that
Ruggedo is afraid of; for if an egg touches a gnome he shrivels up and
disappears.”

“Then where are the eggs?” demanded Sir Hokus gloomily. “In faith, this
sounds more like an omelet than a battle. But if we’re to fight with
eggs instead of swords, let us draw them at once.”

“You mean throw them,” corrected Dorothy. But Tik Tok shook his head
violently.

“Not throw them,” said the Copper Man slowly, “threat-en to throw them.”

“But how can we threaten a giant so far below us?” asked Ozma.

“Print a sign,” directed Tik Tok calmly, “and low-er it down to him.”

“Tik Tok,” cried the Scarecrow, rushing forward and embracing him
impulsively, “your patent-action-double-guaranteed brains are marvels. I
couldn’t have thought up a better plan myself.”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

Now off ran Scraps to fetch a huge piece of cardboard, and the Scarecrow
for a paint brush, and Sir Hokus for a piece of rope.

“It’s growing lighter,” quavered Trot, looking toward the windows. The
sky was turning gray with little streaks of pink, and the three girls
huddled together on the mattress gave a sigh of relief; for nothing, not
even a giant, seems so bad by daylight.

“Perhaps someone has already started to help us,” said Ozma hopefully.
“But here’s the sign board. What shall we write?”

“How shall I begin?” asked the Scarecrow, dipping the brush into a can
of green paint. “Dear Ruggedo?”

“I should say not,” said Dorothy indignantly.

“Then I shall simply say, Sir,” said the Scarecrow.

“If you move or turn or shake your head a-gain, ten thou-sand eggs will
be hurl-ed from the pal-ace windows,” suggested Tik Tok.

As this message met with general approval, the Scarecrow set it down
with many flourishes and blotches of paint spilled between. Then Ozma
painted her name and the Royal seal of Oz at the end.

Meanwhile, with the help of a pair of field glasses, Sir Hokus had
located Ruggedo’s nose, sticking out like a huge cliff below the middle
window of Dorothy’s room. So, tying a long rope to each corner of the
sign, and rolling it up so it would go through the window, the Knight
let it down till it dangled directly in front of Ruggedo’s nose.

At first Ruggedo did not even see the sign, which was about as large as
the tiniest visiting card—compared to him. But it blew against his face
and tickled his cheek. He tried to brush it away. Then, suddenly
noticing it was dangling from above, he seized it in one hand and held
it close to his left eye. The words were so small for a giant that
Ruggedo had to squint fearfully before he could make them out at all,
but when he did he gave a bloodcurdling scream, and began to tremble
violently.

[Illustration: “Ruggedo gave a bloodcurdling scream and began to tremble
violently”]

Up in the palace the entire company fell over and twenty windows were
shaken to bits. Then everything grew quiet and there was perfect
silence; for Ruggedo, realizing his danger, grew rigid with fright.
Giant drops of perspiration trickled down his forehead. How long could
he keep from moving?

“Well,” said Dorothy after a few minutes had passed, “I guess that will
keep him quiet, but what next? Shall we let ourselves down with ropes?”

“We have none long enough,” said Sir Hokus.

“Then I’ll fall out and go for help,” said the Scarecrow brightly, and
started toward the window. When he reached it he paused in astonishment.
“Look,” he cried, waving excitedly to the others, “here comes someone,
walking right over the clouds.”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 15
                       The Sand Man Takes a Hand


Someone was coming toward the palace. A little gray-cloaked old
gentleman—a surprisingly quick and nimble old gentleman—springing from
cloud to cloud and pausing now and then to straighten a huge sack he
carried over his left shoulder. He was so busy admiring the lovely sky
colors behind him and waving merrily at the fluffy cloud figures above
his head, that he did not see Ozma’s shining palace until he was almost
upon it.

“Stars!” murmured the little old gentleman, balancing perilously on the
very edge of a silver cloud. “Another air castle! How delightful! I
shall jump right through it!”

Gathering himself together he leaped straight toward the window out of
which Dorothy and Ozma and the others were looking. With a soft thud he
struck the emerald setting just above the window, and down tumbled his
sack, opening as it fell and filling the air with clouds of silver sand.
Down tumbled the little old gentleman, turning over and over, and
finally landing on a blankety white cloud far below.

All of this Dorothy saw, and was about to ask Ozma what it could mean
when an overpowering drowsiness stole over her. Before she could speak
her eyes closed, and she sank backward into a big arm chair. Trot and
Betsy Bobbin with two little sighs crumpled down to the floor. The head
of Sir Hokus dropped heavily on the sill, and not even in Pokes had he
snored so lustily. Ozma slipped gently down beside Betsy and Trot, and
in a moment there was not a person awake in that whole big palace. Even
the little mice in the kitchen were fast asleep, with heads on their
paws.

Did I say everyone? Well, not quite everyone had fallen under the
strange spell. Tik Tok, Scraps, and the Scarecrow, who had never slept
in their lives, were still wide awake, and regarding their companions
with astonishment and alarm. The Tin Woodman was taking things calmly,
oiling up his joints and polishing his tin jacket with silver polish.

“This is no time to sleep,” cried the Scarecrow, shaking Sir Hokus. “I
say—wake up!” But all their efforts to arouse their companions were in
vain.

“En-chant-ment,” said the Copper Man. “Some—” With a click and a whirr
Tik Tok’s machinery ran down, and as Scraps and the Scarecrow were too
upset to think of winding him, he stood as silent and dumb as the rest.

“What shall we do?” cried the Scarecrow, seizing Scraps’ arm. “Jump out
of the window and go for help, or stay here and guard the palace?”

Scraps looked out of the window. “Stay here,” shuddered the Patch Work
Girl, drawing in her head quickly.

“Then,” said the Scarecrow, “let us arm ourselves and prepare to
withstand any attack.” He snatched up a pair of fire tongs and Scraps
grasped the poker. Falling into step, the two marched from the top to
the bottom of the palace. Everywhere the same sight met their gaze;
rooms turned topsy turvy, and spread over floors and sofas and chairs
the sleeping figures of Ozma’s once lively Courtiers and servants. The
effect was so distressing that Scraps and the Scarecrow found themselves
whispering and treading about on tip-toe. After inspecting the whole
palace they returned to Dorothy’s room and placed themselves
disconsolately in the doorway.

“Anyway, Ruggedo is quiet,” sighed the Scarecrow, “and that is
something.”

Scraps started to make a verse, but the silence and the ghostlike
atmosphere of the sleeping palace had dashed even the spirits of the
Patch Work Girl and she subsided with an indistinct mumble.

Ruggedo was silent for a very good reason. Ruggedo was asleep,
too—asleep sitting up as stiff as a stone image, for even in his sleep
he dreamed of the dreaded bombardment of eggs.

All this had happened because the little man in gray had taken Ozma’s
palace for an air castle, and who could blame him for that? Even the
Sand Man would not expect to find a regular palace set among the clouds.
There are plenty of dream castles, to be sure, and one of the Sand Man’s
chief delights is to jump through them and admire their lovely
furniture. But sure-enough castles—the little fellow could not get over
it. Sitting cross-legged on the white cloud, which floated close to
Ruggedo’s head, he stared and stared.

[Illustration: The Tin Woodman, oiling up his joints]

“Well, I never,” chuckled the Sand Man, and turned a somersault for very
amazement. Then, not knowing what else to do or think, he sensibly
decided to hurry home and tell the whole affair to his wife. His empty
bag he found on a tall treetop, and without one backward glance he
bounded into the air and disappeared. Really, it was quite lucky the
little old gentleman spilled his bag of sand where he did, for the only
safe giant is a sleeping giant, and while Ozma and her friends lay
dreaming they could not worry.

“Will they sleep forever?” sighed Scraps, after she and the Scarecrow
had sat silently for an hour.

“Seems likely,” said the Scarecrow gloomily. “But even if they do,” he
plucked three straws from his chest, “we shall stick to our post to the
very end.”

The Scarecrow regarded the sleeping figures of the little girls
affectionately.

“To the end of forever?” gulped Scraps, putting her cotton finger in her
mouth. “How long is that?”

“That,” said the Scarecrow resignedly and settling himself comfortably,
“that is what we shall soon see.”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 16
                      Kabumpo Vanquishes The Twigs


“Do you think you were alive before?” asked Kabumpo, squinting down his
long trunk at Peg Amy. She had begged him to take off his plush robe
and, spreading it on the grass, was beating it briskly with the branch
of a tree.

“Yes,” sighed the Wooden Doll, pausing with uplifted stick and regarding
Kabumpo solemnly, “I must have been alive before ’cause I keep
remembering things.”

“What kind of things?” asked the Elegant Elephant, rubbing himself
lazily against a tree.

“Well, this for instance,” said Peg, holding up a corner of the purple
plush robe. “I once had a dress of it. I’m sure I had a dress of this
stuff.”

“When you were a little doll?” asked Kabumpo curiously.

“No,” said Peg, giving the robe a few little shakes, “before that. And I
remember this country, too, and the sun and the wind and the sky. If I’d
only been alive one day I wouldn’t remember them, would I?”

“Queer things happen in Oz,” said Kabumpo comfortably. “But why bother?
You are alive and very jolly. You are traveling with the most Elegant
Elephant in Oz and in the company of a Prince. Isn’t that enough?”

Peg Amy did not reply but kept on beating the plush robe with determined
little thumps and staring off through the trees with a very puzzled
expression in her painted blue eyes. They had traveled swiftly all
morning through the fertile farmlands of the Winkies and had paused for
lunch in this little grove. Peg, not needing food, and Kabumpo, finding
plenty of tender branches handy, had remained together while Wag and the
Prince sought more nourishing fare.

Many a little Winkie farmer had stared in amazement as Peg and Pompa
passed that morning but so fast did Kabumpo and Wag travel that before
the Winkies were half sure of what they had seen there was nothing but a
cloud of dust to wonder over and exclaim about.

“If you had a pair of scissors, I could cut off the burned part of your
robe and make it more tidy,” said Peg, when she had finished beating the
dust out of Kabumpo’s gorgeous blanket.

“There might be a pair in my pocket,” said the Elegant Elephant. “Here,
let me get them,” he added hastily. “For suppose she should look into
the Magic Mirror,” he thought suddenly. “It might tell her something
terrible!”

Even in this short time Kabumpo had grown fond of queer wooden Peg and
careless as he was somehow he did not want to hurt her feelings again.
Sure enough, there was a pair of silver scissors in with the jewels he
had tumbled into his pocket before leaving Pumperdink. So Peg carefully
cut away all the scorched part of Kabumpo’s robe and pinned under the
rough edges with three beautiful pearl pins.

“Now lift me up into that small tree and I’ll drop it over you,” she
laughed gaily. This Kabumpo did quite easily and after Peg Amy had
smoothed and adjusted the robe, she crept out on the end of the branch
and straightened the Elegant Elephant’s pearl head dress and brushed all
the dust from his forehead with a handful of damp leaves.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“You’re a good girl, Peg,” said Kabumpo, sighing with contentment. “I
don’t care whether you never were alive before or not, you’ve more sense
than some people who’ve lived for centuries. I’m going to give that
gnome something on my own account. Dared to shake you, did he? Well,
wait till I get through shaking him!”

“It didn’t hurt,” said Peg reflectively, “but it ruined all my clothes.
Do you think Prince Pompadore minds having me look so shabby?”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

Kabumpo shifted about uneasily. “Will this help?” he asked sheepishly,
pulling a lovely pearl necklace from his pocket. “Ozma doesn’t need
everything,” he muttered to himself.

“Oh! How perfectly pomiferous!” cried Peg. “Lift me down so I can try it
on.” In a trice Kabumpo swung her down from the tree and awkwardly Peg
Amy clasped the chain about her wooden neck. Then she flung both arms
round Kabumpo’s trunk. “You’re the biggest darling old elephant in Oz!”
cried Peg happily.

Kabumpo blinked. He was accustomed to being called elegant and
magnificent but no one—not even Pompa—had ever called him an old darling
before and he found he liked it immensely.

While Peg ran to look at her reflection in a small pool he resolved to
get the Wooden Doll a position at Court, for, in spite of her stiff
fingers, Peg was very deft and clever. “And she shall have a purple
plush dress too,” said Kabumpo grandly.

Just then Pompa and Wag returned in a high good humor. The Prince had
tapped on the door of a small farm house and the little Winkie lady had
been most hospitable. Not only had she given the Prince all he could
eat, but she had allowed Wag to go into the garden and pick two dozen of
her best cabbages. His size had greatly astonished her and she had
insisted upon measuring him twice with her yellow tape measure but
finally, without revealing the purpose of their journey, the two managed
to get away. As all were now refreshed and rested, they decided to start
on again.

“We ought to reach Ev by evening,” puffed Wag, between hops.

“But I wish we could open the Magic Box,” sighed Peg, holding on to
Wag’s ear, “for in that box there’s Flying Fluid!”

“We’d make a remarkably nice lot of birds,” chuckled Kabumpo, looking
over his shoulder, “now wouldn’t we?”

“You would,” laughed Pompa. “What else was in the box, Peg?”

It was hard to talk while they were being jolted along, but Peg, being
of wood, did not feel the bumps and Pompa, being a Prince, pretended not
to, so that they continued their conversation in jerky sentences.

“There’s Vanishing Cream, a little tea kettle and some kind of rays and
a Question Box,” said Peg, holding up her wooden hand. “A Question Box
that answers any question you ask it.”

“There is!” exclaimed Kabumpo, stopping short. “Well, I wish we could
ask it whether Pumperdink has disappeared.”

“And how to rescue Ozma, and who sent the scroll!” cried Pompa. “Oh, do
let me try to open it, Peg!”

So Peg handed over Glegg’s Magic Box and as they pounded along the
Prince tried to pry it open with his pearl pen knife. “It would save us
such a lot of trouble,” he murmured, holding it up and screwing his eye
to the keyhole.

“Better let it alone,” advised Wag, wiggling his ears nervously.
“Suppose you should grow as big for you as I am for me. Suppose you
should explode or vanish!”

“Vanish!” coughed Kabumpo. “Great Grump! Put it away, Pompa. Wait till
we reach Ev and make that wicked little Ruggedo open it for us. Who is
this Glegg, anyway?”

“A lawless magician, I guess,” said Wag, “or he wouldn’t have owned a
box of Mixed Magic. Ozma doesn’t allow anyone to practice magic, you
know.”

“Why, I’ll bet he was the person who sent the scroll!” exclaimed the
Prince suddenly. “Don’t you remember, Kabumpo, it was signed J. G.?”

“Not a doubt in the world,” rumbled Kabumpo. “I’ll throw him up a tree
when I catch him and Ruggedo, too!”

“Oh, please don’t,” begged Peg Amy. “Perhaps they are sorry.”

“Not half as sorry as they will be,” wheezed Kabumpo, plowing ahead
through the long grass like a big ferryboat under full steam.

Wag hopped close behind and Peg kept her eyes fixed upon Pompa’s back.
In spite of his scorched head, he seemed to Peg the most delightful
Prince imaginable.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“I’ll brush off his cloak and cut his hair all evenly,” thought Peg.
“Then, perhaps Ozma will say _yes_ when he tells her his story and asks
for her hand. But I wonder what will become of me,” Peg sighed ever so
softly and looked down with distaste at her wooden hands and torn old
dress. Nothing very exciting could happen to a shabby Wooden Doll.

“Why, I haven’t even any right to be alive,” she reflected sadly. “I’m
only meant to be funny. Well, never mind! Perhaps I can help Pompa and
maybe that’s why I was brought to life.”

This thought, and the gleam of the lovely pearls Kabumpo had given her,
so cheered Peg that she began to hum a queer, squeaky little song. The
country was growing rougher and more hilly every minute. The sunny
farmlands lay far behind them now and as Peg finished her song they came
to the edge of a queer, dead-looking forest. The trees were dry and
without leaves and there were quantities of stiff bushes and short
stunted little trees standing under the taller ones.

Peg had an odd feeling that hundreds of eyes were staring out at them
but the forest was so dim that she couldn’t be sure. There was not a
sound but the crackling of the dead branches under Wag’s and Kabumpo’s
feet.

“I don’t like this,” choked Wag. “My wocks and hoop soons! What a
pleerful chase!”

“It isn’t very cheerful,” shivered Peg. “Oh, look, Wag! That big tree
has eyes!” At Peg’s remark the tree doubled up its branches into fists
and stepped right out in front of them. At the same instant all the
other trees and bushes moved closer, with dry crackling steps.

“Now we have you!” snapped the tallest tree in a dreadful voice.

[Illustration: “Now we have you!” snapped the tallest tree in a dreadful
voice]

“Now we have you!” crackled all the other skitter-witchy creatures,
crowding closer.

  “Pigs, pigs, we’re the twigs;
  We’ll tweak your ears and snatch your wigs!”

they shouted all together. One taller than the rest leaned over and
seized Wag by the ear with its twisted fingers.

“Help!” screamed Wag, kicking out with his hind legs. Immediately
Kabumpo began laying about with his trunk.

“Stand back!” he trumpeted angrily, “or I’ll trample you to splinters.”

Pompa stood up on Kabumpo’s back and began to wave his sword
threateningly. At this the ugly creatures grew simply furious. They
snatched at the Prince with their long, claw-like branches, tearing at
his sadly scorched hair and almost upsetting him.

“Stop! Stop!” cried Peg Amy, waving her wooden arms frantically. “Don’t
hit him. He’s going to be married. Hit me, I’m only made of wood!”

“Don’t you dare hit her!” shrilled Pompa, slicing off the branch head of
the nearest Twig. “I am a Prince and she is under my protection. Don’t
touch her!”

By this time Kabumpo had cleared himself a space ahead and Wag a space
behind. Every time Kabumpo’s trunk flew out, a dozen of the queer
crackly Bushmen tumbled over forward and every time Wag’s heels flew out
a dozen crumpled over backward. Pompa kept his sword whirling and, after
several had lost top branches, the whole crowd fell back and began
grumbling together.

“Now then!” puffed Kabumpo angrily, “let’s make a dash for it, Wag. Come
on; we’ll smash them to kindling wood!”

“What’s all this commotion?” cried a loud voice. The Twigs fell back
immediately and a bent and twisted old tree hobbled forward.

“Strangers, your Woodjesty,” whispered a tall Twig, waving a branch at
Kabumpo.

“Well, have you pinched them?” asked the King in a bored voice.

“A little,” admitted the tall Twig nervously, “but they object to it,
your Woodjesty.”

“Well, what if they do?” rasped the King tartly. “Don’t be gormish
Faggots. You know I detest gormishness. It seems to me you might allow
my people a little innocent diversion,” he grumbled, turning to Pompa,
“they don’t get much pleasure!”

“Pleasure!” gasped the Prince, while Kabumpo and Wag were so astonished
that they forgot to fight.

“What does he mean by gormish?” whispered Peg uneasily to Wag. Before he
could answer, the Twigs, who evidently had decided not to be gormish,
made a rush upon the travelers. But Kabumpo was ready for them with
uplifted trunk. With a furious trumpet he charged straight into the
middle, Wag at his heels, with the result that the Twigs went crackling
and snapping to the ground in heaps.

“All we need is a match,” grunted Kabumpo, pounding along unmindful of
the scratching and clawing. “They’re good for nothing but kindling
wood.”

“Don’t be gormish,” he screeched scornfully, as he flung the last Twig
out of his way and Wag and he never stopped till they had put a good
mile between themselves and the disagreeable pinchers.

“Are you hurt?” asked Kabumpo, stopping at last and looking around at
Pompa. “If we keep on this way you won’t be fit to be seen—much less to
marry. Let’s have a look at you.” He lifted the Prince down carefully
and eyed him with consternation. The Prince had seven long scratches on
his cheek and his velvet cloak was torn to ribbons.

“I declare,” spluttered the Elegant Elephant explosively, “you’re a
perfect fright. I declare, it’s a grumpy shame!”

“Well, don’t be gormish,” said the Prince, smiling faintly and wiping
his cheek with his handkerchief.

“Let me help,” begged Peg Amy, falling off Wag’s back. “Ozma won’t mind
a few scratches and what do clothes matter? Anyone would know he was a
Prince,” she added, taking Pompa’s cloak and regarding it ruefully.

Pompa smiled at Peg’s earnestness and made her his best bow but Kabumpo
still looked anxious. “Everyone’s not so smart as you, Peg,” he sighed
gloomily. “But come along. The main thing is to rescue Ozma and after
that perhaps she won’t notice your scratches and torn cloak. She’ll
think you got them fighting the giant,” he finished more hopefully.

With a few more of Kabumpo’s jeweled pins Peg repaired Pompa’s cloak.
Then, after tying up Wag’s ear, which was badly torn, they started off
again.

“What worries me,” said Wag, twitching his nose very fast, “what worries
me is crossing the Deadly Desert. We’re almost to it, you know.”

“Never cross deserts till you come to ’em,” grunted Kabumpo, with a wink
at Peg Amy.

“Oh, all right,” sniffed Wag, “but don’t be gormish. You know how I
detest gormishness!”

While Pompa and Peg were laughing over these last remarks a most
terrible rumble sounded behind them.

“Now what?” trumpeted Kabumpo, turning about.

“Sheverything’s mixed hup!” gulped Wag, putting back his ears. “Hold on
to me, Peg!”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 17
                      Meeting The Runaway Country


Everything was mixed up, indeed. Moving toward the little party of
rescuers was a huge jagged piece of land, running along on ten
tremendous feet and feeling its way with its long wiggly peninsula. The
feet raised it several yards above the ground.

“If we crouch down maybe it will run over us,” panted Pompa, sliding
down Kabumpo’s trunk.

“I don’t want to be run over,” shrilled Wag, beginning to hop in a
frenzied circle.

“Stop!” cried the Land in a loud voice, as Wag and Kabumpo started to
run.

“Better stop,” puffed Kabumpo, his eyes rolling wildly, “or it’ll
probably fall on us.” Trembling in spite of themselves, they stood still
and waited for the Land to approach.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“I’ve often heard of sailors hailing land with joy,” gulped Wag, “but
this—well, how did it get this way?”

As the Runaway Country drew nearer, its peninsula fairly quivered with
excitement and as it reached them it pulled up its front feet and tilted
forward to get a better view. Its eyes were two small blue lakes and its
mouth a broad bubbling river.

“I claim you by right of discovery,” cried the Land in its loud, river
voice and before they could make any objection it scooped them up neatly
and tossed them on a little hill.

“This is outrageous,” spluttered the Elegant Elephant, picking Peg out
of some bushes. “We’ve been kidnapped!”

“Let’s jump off!” cried Wag, beginning to hop toward the edge.

“I wouldn’t do that,” said the Land calmly, “because I’d only run after
you again. You might as well settle down and grow up with me. I’m not
such a bad little Country,” it added quietly, “just a bit rough and
uncultivated.”

“Well, what’s that got to do with us,” demanded Kabumpo, staring the
Country right in its lake-eyes. “We’re on an important mission and we
haven’t time for this sort of thing at all.”

“It’s a matter of saving a Princess,” cried Pompa impulsively. “Couldn’t
you, please—”

“Let someone else save her,” said the Country indifferently, beginning
to move off sideways like a crab. “You’re the first savages I’ve found
and I’m going to keep you. Not that you’re what I’d pick out,” it
continued ungraciously. “That wooden girl looks uncommonly odd and you
two beasts are even queerer. But I’m liberal, I am, and the boy looks
all right so far as I can see.”

“But, look here,” panted Wag, twitching his nose very fast, “this is all
wrong. Land is supposed to stand still, isn’t it? You’ve no right to
discover us. We don’t want to be discovered. Put us off at once—do you
hear?”

“Yes, I hear,” said the Runaway Country gruffly. “And I’ve heard about
enough. Don’t anger me,” it shrilled warningly. “Remember, I’m a wild,
rough Country.”

“You’re the wildest Country I ever saw,” groaned the Elegant Elephant,
falling up against a tree. “And of all ridiculous happenings this is the
worst!”

“Never mind,” whispered Peg Amy, standing on her tip toes to whisper in
Kabumpo’s huge ear, “it’s taking us in the right direction, and maybe,
if we were very polite—?”

“Go ahead and try it,” wheezed Kabumpo, rolling his eyes. “I’m too
upset.” He hugged the tree again.

So Peg climbed to the top of the little hill and, waving her wooden arms
to attract the Country’s attention, called cheerfully:

“Yoho, Mr. Land! Where are you going?”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

At first the Land only blinked his blue lake-eyes sulkily but, as Peg
paid no attention to his ill temper and began making him pretty
compliments on his mountains and trees, he gradually cheered up.

“I’m going to be an island,” he announced finally. “That’s where I’m
going. I’m tired of being a hot, dry old undiscovered plateau and I
don’t intend to stop till I come to the Nonestic Ocean.”

“Oh!” groaned Wag, falling over backwards. “We’re going to be cast away
on a desert island.”

Peg held up a warning finger. “What made you want to run away and be an
island?” she asked faintly for, even to Peg, things looked serious.

“Well,” began the Land, giving itself a hitch, “I lay patiently for
years and years waiting to be discovered. Nobody came—not even one
little missionary. I kept getting lonelier and lonelier. You see how
broken up I am!”

“Yes, we can see that, all right,” sniffed Kabumpo.

“And I’m ambitious,” continued the Country huskily. “I want to be
cultivated and built up like other Kingdoms. So, one day I made up my
mind I wouldn’t wait any longer but would run off myself and discover
some settlers. As I have ten mountains and each has a foot there seemed
to be no reason why I shouldn’t run away, so I _did_—and I _have_!”

The Country rolled its lakes triumphantly at the little party on the
hill. “I have found some settlers and I’m looking to you to develop me
into a good, modern, up-to-Oz Kingdom. I’m a progressive Country and I
expect you to improve and make something out of me,” it continued
earnestly. “There’s gold to be dug out of my mountains, plenty of good
farm land to be planted and cities to be built, and—”

“What do you think we are?” exploded Kabumpo indignantly. “Slaves?”

“He’ll get used to it in time,” said the Runaway Country, paying no
attention to Kabumpo, “and he’ll be useful for drawing logs. Now you,”
he turned his watery eyes full on Peg Amy, “you seem to be the most
sensible one in the party, so I think I shall bestow myself upon you. Of
course you’re not at all handsome nor regular, but from now on you may
consider yourself a Princess and _me_ as your Kingdom.”

“Thank you! Thank you very much!” said Peg Amy, hardly knowing what else
to say.

“Hurrah for the Princess of Runaway Island!” cried Wag, standing on his
head. “I always knew you were a Princess, Peg my dear.”

“Oh, hush!” whispered Pompa. “Can’t you see it’s getting more
reasonable? Maybe Peg can persuade it to stop.”

“If it doesn’t stop soon I’ll tear all its trees out by the roots,”
grumbled Kabumpo under his breath. “Logging, indeed! Great Grump! Here’s
the Deadly Desert!”

The air was now so hot and choking that Pompa flung himself face down on
the cool grass. The Runaway Country did not seem to notice the burning
sands and pattered smoothly along on its ten mountain feet.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“Something has to be done, quick,” breathed Peg, clasping her hands,
“for soon we’ll be in Ev.”

Pompa, holding his silk handkerchief before his face, had come up beside
her and they both looked anxiously for the first signs of the country
that held Ruggedo and the giant who had run off with Ozma’s palace.

“Oh, Mr. Land,” called Peg suddenly.

“Yes, Princess,” answered the Country, without slackening its speed.

“Have you thought about feeding us?” asked the Wooden Doll gently. “I
don’t see any fruit trees or vegetables or chickens and settlers must
eat, you know. We ought to have some seeds to plant and some building
materials, oughtn’t we, if we’re going to make you into an up-to-Oz
Country?”

“Pshaw!” said the Runaway Country, stopping with a jolt, “I never
thought of that. Can’t you eat grass and fish? There’s fine fish in my
lakes.”

“Well, I don’t eat at all,” explained Peg pleasantly, “but Pompa is a
Prince and a Prince has to have meat and vegetables and puddings on
Sunday—”

“And I have to have lettuce and carrots and cabbages, or I won’t work!”
cried Wag, thumping with his hind feet and winking at Kabumpo. “I’ll not
dig a single mountain!”

“And I’ve got to have my ton of hay a day, too!” trumpeted the Elegant
Elephant, “or I’ll not lug a single log. Pretty poor sort of a Country
you are, expecting us to live on grass as if we were donkeys and goats.”

The Runaway Country rolled its lakes helplessly from one to the other.
“I thought settlers always managed to get a living off the land,” it
murmured in a troubled voice.

“Not us!” rumbled Kabumpo. “Not enough pie in pioneer to suit this
party!”

“Has your Highness anything to suggest?” asked the Country, looking
anxiously at Peg.

“Well,” said the Wooden Doll slowly, “suppose we stop at the first
country we come to and stock up. We could get a few chickens and seeds
and saws and hammers and things.”

“You’d run away,” said the Runaway Country suspiciously. “Not but what I
trust you, Princess,” he added hastily, “but them.” He scowled darkly at
Kabumpo and Wag. “I’ll not let them out of my sight.”

“How our little floating island loves us,” chuckled Wag, nudging the
Elegant Elephant.

“They won’t run away,” said Peg softly. “And if they did you could
easily catch them again.”

“That’s so; I’ll stop wherever you say,” sighed the Country, starting on
again.

“What are you going to do?” whispered Pompa, catching Peg’s arm.

“I don’t know,” said Peg honestly, “but perhaps if we can make it stop
something will turn up. We’re almost across the desert now and that’s a
big help.”

“You’re wonderful!” cried Pompa, eying Peg gratefully. “How can I ever
thank you?”

“Better get your sword ready,” said Peg practically, “for we may run
into that giant any minute now.” Even Kabumpo and Wag had stopped making
jokes and were straining their eyes toward Ev.

“Let’s all stand together!” gasped Wag breathlessly. Before Peg or Pompa
had time to plan, or Kabumpo to reply, the Runaway Country stepped off
the desert and swept over the border and into the Kingdom of Ev, making
straight for a tall purple mountain.

“Do you see anything that looks like a giant, or a palace?” asked Peg,
leaning forward.

“Oh, help!” screamed Wag just then, while Kabumpo gave an earsplitting
trumpet. Peg grasped Pompa and Pompa clutched Peg and no wonder!
Directly in front of them were the legs and feet of the most terrible
and tremendous giant they had ever imagined. He was sitting on the
mountain itself and only a part of him was visible, for his head and
shoulders were lost in the clouds.

[Illustration: Kabumpo gave an ear-splitting trumpet]

“What’s the matter? What’s the matter?” rumbled the Runaway Country,
tilting forward slightly so it could see. One look was enough. With a
frightened jump, that sent the four travelers hurtling through the air,
it began running backwards and in a moment was out of sight.

Peg was the first to recover her senses. Being wood, bumps didn’t bother
her. She rose stiffly and gazed around her. Pompa’s feet were waving
feebly from a small clump of bushes. Kabumpo stood swaying near by,
while Wag lay over on his side with closed eyes.

“Oh, you poor dears!” murmured Peg, and running over to the bushes she
pulled out the Prince of Pumperdink and settled him with his back
against a tree. He was much shaken by his high dive from the island, but
pulled himself together and patted Peg’s wooden hand kindly. By this
time Kabumpo had gotten his bearings and came wabbling over.

“You’ve got a black eye, I see,” wheezed the Elegant Elephant bitterly.

“Not so very black,” said Peg cheerfully. “Are you hurt, Kabumpo?”

The Elegant Elephant felt himself all over with his trunk. “Well, I’m
not used to being flung about like a bean bag,” he said irritably. Then
he lowered his voice hastily, as he caught another glimpse of those
dreadful giant feet. “I’ll go help Wag,” he whispered, backing away
quickly.

It took some time to rouse the giant rabbit, but finally he opened his
eyes. “I shought I thaw a giant,” he muttered thickly. “Hush!” warned
Kabumpo. “He’s over there.” He waved his trunk in the direction of the
mountain and began dragging Wag firmly away.

“C’mon over here,” he called in a loud whisper to Peg and Pompa. Leaning
heavily on Peg Amy the Prince came. Then he gave a cry of distress. “My
sword!” he gasped, staring around a bit wildly.

“I’ll find it,” said Peg obligingly. “You sit still and rest.”

“Where’s the Magic Box?” coughed Kabumpo, with an uneasy glance in the
giant’s direction.

Now that they were actually in Ev, the Elegant Elephant began to doubt
the wisdom of his plan for killing the monster.

“Gone!” wailed Pompa, feeling in his pocket. “I dropped it when I fell
off the Land. What shall we do, Kabumpo?”

“Don’t be a Gooch,” gulped the Elegant Elephant, but he said it without
spirit.

“It’s probably around here somewhere.” Moving quietly, Kabumpo began to
poke about with his trunk.

Just then Peg Amy came flying toward them, her ragged dress fluttering
in the breeze.

“Look!” whispered the Wooden Doll, dropping on her knees before them.

In her hands was Glegg’s Box of Mixed Magic and _it was open_!

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 18
                       Prince Pompadore Proposes


While Peg and Pompa and the Elegant Elephant eyed the box, Wag,
twitching his nose and mumbling very fast under his breath, backed
rapidly away. He was not going to run the risk of any more explosions.
So anxious was the big rabbit to put a good distance between himself and
Glegg’s Mixed Magic, that he never realized that he was backing toward
the giant till a sharp thump on the back of the head brought him up
short.

Trembling in every hair, Wag looked over his shoulder. _Stars!_ He had
run into the terrible, five-toed foot of the giant himself. At first Wag
was too terrified to move. But suddenly the hair on the back of his neck
bristled erect. He peered at the giant’s foot more attentively. His eyes
snapped and, seizing a stout stick that lay near by, he brought it down
with all his might on the giant’s toes.

“It’s Ruggedo!” screamed Wag, hopping up and down with rage. “And I’ll
pound his curly toes off. I don’t care if he is a giant! I’ll pound his
curly toes off!”

The stick whistled through the air and whacked the giant’s toes again.

Now of course we have known all along that the giant was Ruggedo, but it
was a great surprise for the rescuers. Ruggedo was bad enough to deal
with as a gnome—but a giant Ruggedo! _Horrors!_

“Stop him! Stop him!” cried Peg Amy, throwing up her hands and
scattering the contents of the box of magic in every direction.

“What are you trying to do?” roared Kabumpo, plunging forward. “Get us
all trampled on?”

A muffled cry came down from the clouds and, as Kabumpo dragged Wag back
by the ear, something flashed through the air and bounced upon the
Elegant Elephant’s head.

“It’s the Scarecrow!” chattered Wag, wriggling from beneath Kabumpo’s
trunk. Kabumpo opened his eyes and peered down at the limp bundle at his
feet. As he looked the bundle began to pull itself together. It sat up
awkwardly and began clutching itself into shape.

“Where’d you come from?” gasped the Elegant Elephant. Without speaking,
the Scarecrow waved his hand upward and rose unsteadily to his feet.
Then, catching sight of Peg Amy and Pompadore, the Straw Man bowed
politely. Meanwhile Wag, seeing that Kabumpo’s attention was diverted,
began to sidle back toward Ruggedo.

“Stop!” cried the Scarecrow, running after him. “Are you crazy? Don’t
you know Ozma’s palace is on his head? Every time he moves everyone in
the palace tumbles about. Was it you who stirred him up and made him
spill me out of the window?”

“I’ll wake him up some more, the wicked old scrabble-scratch,” muttered
Wag, but Kabumpo jerked him back roughly.

[Illustration: The Scarecrow waved his hand upward]

“Great Grump!” choked the Elegant Elephant, shaking Wag in his
exasperation. “Here we’ve come all this way to save Princess Ozma and
now you want to upset everything.”

“That’s the way to do it,” said the Scarecrow, rolling his eyes wildly.

“Please stop it, Wag,” begged Peg Amy, throwing her wooden arms around
the big rabbit’s neck, and as Pompa added his voice to Peg’s, Wag
finally threw down his stick.

“Who is that beautiful girl?” asked the Scarecrow of Kabumpo. The
Elegant Elephant looked at the Straw Man sharply, to see that he was not
poking fun at the Wooden Doll. Finding he was quite serious, he said
proudly, “That’s Peg Amy, the best little body in Oz. She’s under my
protection,” he added grandly.

Just then Pompa and Peg came over and Wag, who had often seen the
Scarecrow in the Emerald City, introduced them all.

“Did I understand you to say you had come to rescue Ozma?” asked the
Scarecrow, who could not keep his eyes off the Elegant Elephant.

“Did I understand you to say Ozma’s palace was on Ruggedo’s head?”
shuddered Kabumpo, glancing fearfully in the direction of the mountain.

The Scarecrow nodded vigorously and told in a few words of their
terrible journey to Ev and their present perilous position. How the
palace had gotten on Ruggedo’s head, he admitted was a puzzle to him.
Kabumpo and Pompadore listened with amazement, especially to the part
where they had threatened Ruggedo with eggs.

“And he’s kept still for two days just on account of eggs?” gasped the
Elegant Elephant incredulously.

“Well, no,” admitted the Scarecrow, wrinkling up his forehead. “A little
man came flying through the air the first morning and bumped into the
palace and instantly everyone except Scraps and me fell asleep. Ruggedo
was put to sleep, too; we could hear him snoring.”

“Why, it must have been the Sand Man,” breathed Peg Amy. “I have heard
he lived near here.”

“Are they asleep now?” asked Pompa, clutching the Scarecrow’s arm. How
romantic—thought the Prince of Pumperdink—to rescue and waken a sleeping
Princess!

But the Scarecrow shook his head. “A few minutes before I fell out they
began to wake up and I’d just gone to the window to look for Glinda when
Ruggedo gave a howl and ducked his head and here I fell.” The Scarecrow
spread his hands eloquently and smiled at Peg.

“Has Glinda been here?” asked Kabumpo jealously.

“Yes,” said the Scarecrow. “She came this morning and she’s been trying
all sorts of magic to reduce Ruggedo without harm to the palace.”

“Great Grump! Do you hear that?” Kabumpo rolled his eyes anxiously
toward the Prince. “If Glinda’s magic takes effect before ours then
where’ll we be? Peg! Peg! Where’s the box of Mixed Magic?”

“Would you mind telling me,” burst out the Scarecrow, who had been
examining one after another in the party with a puzzled expression,
“would you mind telling me how you happened to know about the palace
disappearing; how you got across the sandy desert; how you expect to
help us; how he (with a jerk at Wag) came to be too large; how she (with
a jerk of his thumb at Peg) came to be alive; and—”

“All in good time; all in good time!” trumpeted Kabumpo testily. “You
sound like the Curious Cottabus! The principal thing to do now is to
save Ozma. Will Ruggedo stay quiet a little longer?”

“If he’s not disturbed,” said the Scarecrow, with a meaning glance at
Wag.

“Well, my hocks and woop soons!” cried the rabbit indignantly. “Isn’t
anyone going to punish him? He shook and shook Peg and he meddled with
magic and blew up into a giant. He’s run off with the palace. Doesn’t he
deserve a pounding?”

“Friend,” said the Scarecrow, “I admire your spirit but my excellent
brains tell me that this is a case where an ounce of prevention is worth
a pound of cure. But have we the ounce of prevention?”

“Here’s the Question Box,” announced Peg, who had run off at Kabumpo’s
first call. “What shall we ask it first?”

“How to save the lovely Princess of Oz,” spoke up Pompa, running his
hand over his scorched locks. “Where’s my crown, Kabumpo?”

Kabumpo fished the crown from his pocket and Pompa set it gravely upon
his head as Peg asked the Question Box:

“How shall we save the lovely Princess of Oz?”

These maneuvers so astonished the Scarecrow that he lost his balance and
fell flat on his nose. When he recovered Peg was clapping her wooden
hands and Kabumpo was dancing on three legs.

“You’re as good as married, my boy!” cried Kabumpo, thumping the Prince
upon the back.

“What is it? What’s happened?” gasped the Scarecrow.

“Why, the Question Box says to pour three drops of Trick Tea on
Ruggedo’s left foot and two on his right and he will then march back to
the Emerald City, descend into his cave and, after the palace has
settled firmly on its foundations, he will shrink down to his former
size,” read Peg Amy, holding the Question Box close to her eyes, for the
printing was very small.

“Hurrah!” cried the Scarecrow, throwing up his hat. “Peggy, put the
kettle on and we’ll all have some tea! But where’d you get all this
magic stuff?” he asked immediately after.

“Out of a box of Mixed Magic,” puffed Kabumpo, his little eyes twinkling
with anticipation as he watched Peg. First she filled the tiny kettle at
a near-by brook; then she lit the little lamp and dropped some of the
Trick Tea into the kettle. Bright pink clouds arose from the kettle, as
soon as Peg had set it over the flame, and while they waited for it to
boil Pompa put another question.

“Has Pumperdink disappeared?” asked the Prince, in a trembling voice.

“N-o,” spelled the Question Box slowly, and Kabumpo settled back with a
great sigh of relief.

“I told you everything would be all right if you followed my advice,”
said the Elegant Elephant. “Stand up now and try to forget your black
eye. You are the Prince of Pumperdink and I am the Elegant Elephant of
Oz.”

“But why all the ceremony?” asked the Scarecrow, looking mystified.

Kabumpo only chuckled to himself and, as the Trick Tea was now ready,
Peg took the little kettle and began to tip-toe toward Ruggedo.

“I hope it’s red hot,” grumbled Wag resentfully. “He’s getting off easy,
the old scrabble-scratch! Getting off! Say, look here!” He gestured
violently to Kabumpo. “If Ruggedo returns to the Emerald City with the
palace on his head, where does Pompa come in?” He pointed a trembling
paw at the Prince, his nose twitching so fast it made the Scarecrow
blink.

“Stop!” trumpeted the Elegant Elephant, plunging after Peg Amy. He
reached her just in time.

“I’m no better than Pumper,” grunted Kabumpo, mopping his brow with the
tail of his robe. “Suppose, after all our hardships, I had allowed Ozma
and the palace to get away without giving Pompa a chance to ask her—”

“But we ought to save her as quick as we can,” ventured Peg. “Couldn’t
we hurry back to the Emerald City again?”

“It might be too late,” wheezed Kabumpo. “Let—me—see!”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

“Hello!” cried the Scarecrow. “Here comes Glinda.” As he spoke the swan
chariot of the good Sorceress floated down beside the little party.

“Bother!” groaned Kabumpo, as Glinda stepped out.

“Some strangers,” called the Scarecrow, gleefully running toward Glinda,
“some strangers with a box of Mixed Magic trying to help.”

“If we could have a few words with Ozma,” put in the Elegant Elephant
hastily, “everything would be all right.”

Glinda looked at Kabumpo gravely. “It’s unlawful to practice magic. You
must know that,” said the Sorceress sternly.

“But it’s not our magic, your Highness,” explained Peg Amy, setting down
the little kettle. “We found it, and we’re only trying to help Ozma.”

“Well, in that case,” Glinda could not help smiling at the Wooden Doll’s
quaint appearance, “I shall be glad to assist you, as all of my magic
has proved useless.”

“Aren’t you the Prince of Pumperdink?” she asked, nodding toward Pompa.
The Prince bowed in his most princely fashion and assured her that he
was and, after a few hasty explanations, Glinda promised to bring Ozma
down in her chariot.

“Tell her,” trumpeted Kabumpo impressively, as the chariot rose in the
air, “tell her that a young Prince waits below!”

While Pompa was still looking after Glinda’s chariot, Peg Amy came up to
him and extended both her wooden hands.

“I wish you much happiness, Pompa dear,” said the Wooden Doll in a low
voice.

Pompa pressed Peg’s hands gratefully. “If it hadn’t been for you I’d
never have succeeded. You shall have everything you wish for now, Peg.
Why, where are you going?”

“Good-bye!” called Peg Amy, trying to keep her voice as cheerful as her
painted face, and before anyone could stop her she began to run toward a
little grove of trees.

“Come back!” cried the Prince, starting after her.

“Come back!” trumpeted Kabumpo in alarm.

“I’ll get her!” coughed Wag, hopping forward jealously. “I’ve known her
the longest.”

Pompa and Kabumpo both started to run, too, but just at that minute down
swooped the chariot and out jumped Ozma, the lovely little Ruler of Oz.

“At last!” gasped Kabumpo, pushing Pompa forward.

If Ozma was startled by their singular appearance, she was too polite to
say so, and she returned Pompa’s deep bow with a still deeper curtsey.

“Glinda tells me you have come a long, long way just to help me,” said
Ozma anxiously. “Is that so?”

“Princess!” cried Pompa, falling on his knee. “I know you are worried
about your palace and your Courtiers and your friends. Two drops of that
Triple Trick Tea (he waved at the small kettle) upon Ruggedo’s right
foot and three on his left will set everything right!”

“But where did you get it—and why?” Ozma looked doubtfully at the
Scarecrow.

“Might as well try it,” advised the Scarecrow.

“We will explain everything later,” puffed the Elegant Elephant. “Trust
old Kabumpo, your Highness, and everything will turn out happily.”

“I believe I will,” smiled Ozma. “Will you try the Trick Tea, Glinda?”

Glinda took the kettle and poured it exactly as directed. First Ruggedo
gave a gusty sigh that blew the clouds about in every direction.

“Look out!” warned Glinda.

Next instant they all fluttered down like a pack of cards, for Ruggedo
had taken a step—a giant step that shook the earth as if it had been a
block of jelly—and when they had picked themselves up Ruggedo was out of
sight, tramping like a giant in a dream, back toward the Emerald City.

[Illustration: Ruggedo, tramping like a giant in a dream, back to the
Emerald City]

“You wait here!” cried Glinda to Ozma. “And I’ll follow him!” She sprang
into her chariot.

“How do you know he’ll go back?” asked the little Ruler of Oz, staring
with straining eyes for a glimpse of the giant.

“Because the Question Box said so,” chuckled Kabumpo triumphantly.

“Good magic!” approved the Scarecrow. “But where is that charming Peg? I
think I’ll run find her.”

No sooner had the Scarecrow disappeared than Pompa, swallowing very
hard, again approached Ozma. But Ozma, still looking after Glinda’s
vanishing chariot, was hardly aware of the Prince of Pumperdink.

Poor Pompa dropped on his knee (which had a large hole in it by this
time) and began mumbling indistinct sentences. Then, as Kabumpo frowned
with disgust, the Prince burst out desperately, “Princess, will you
marry me?”

“Marry you?” gasped the little Ruler of Oz. “Good gracious, _no_!”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 19
                       Ozma Takes Things In Hand


Prince Pompadore jumped up quickly.

“I told you she wouldn’t!” he choked, looking reproachfully at Kabumpo.
“I’m not half good enough.”

“He doesn’t always look so scratched up and shabby,” wheezed Kabumpo
breathlessly. “We’ve been scorched and pinched and kidnapped. We’ve been
through every kind of hardship to save your Highness—and _now_!” The
Elegant Elephant slouched against a tree, the picture of discouragement.
He seemed to have forgotten the jewels that were to have won the
Princess for Pompa and his threat of running off with her should she
refuse him.

“Why, you don’t even know me,” cried Ozma, dismayed by even the thought
of marrying; for though the little Ruler of Oz has lived almost a
thousand years she is no older than _you_ are and would no more think of
marrying than Dorothy or Betsy Bobbin or Trot. Ruling the Kingdom of Oz
takes almost all of Ozma’s time and in any that is left she wants to
play and enjoy herself like any other sensible little girl. For Ozma is
only a little girl fairy after all.

“I’m not going to marry anybody!” she declared stoutly. Then, because
she really was touched by Pompa’s woebegone appearance, she asked more
kindly, “Why did you want to marry me especially?”

“Because you are the properest Princess in Oz,” groaned the Prince,
leaning disconsolately against Kabumpo. “Because if we don’t Pumperdink
will disappear and my poor old father and my mother and everyone.”

“Not to speak of us,” gulped the Elegant Elephant.

“But where is Pumperdink, and who said it would disappear?” asked Ozma
in amazement. “And how did you happen to have this Trick Tea and come to
rescue me?”

“The Prince always rescues the Princess he intends to marry,” said
Kabumpo wearily. “I should think you’d know that.”

“Well, I’m very grateful, and I’ll do anything I can except marry you,”
exclaimed Ozma, who was beginning to feel very much interested in this
strange pair.

“Thank you,” said Kabumpo stiffly, for he was deeply offended. “Thank
you, but we must be going. Come along, Pompa.”

“Don’t be a Gooch!” This time it was Pompa who spoke. “I’m going to tell
her everything!”

And Pompa, being as I have told you before the most charming Prince in
the world, made Ozma a comfortable throne of green boughs and, throwing
himself at her feet, poured out the whole story of their adventures,
beginning with the birthday party and the mysterious scroll. He told of
their meeting with Peg Amy and Wag and ended up with the ride upon the
Runaway Country.

Kabumpo stood by, swaying sulkily. He was very much disappointed in the
Princess of Oz. He felt that she had no proper appreciation of his or
Pompa’s importance.

“I’m going to find Peg,” he called finally. “She’s got more sense than
any of you,” he wheezed under his breath as he swept grandly out of
sight.

Ozma put both hands to her head as Pompa finished his recital and really
it was enough to puzzle any fairy. Scrolls, live Wooden Dolls, a giant
rabbit, a mysterious magician threatening disappearances and Ruggedo’s
wicked use of the box of Mixed Magic.

“Goodness!” cried the little Ruler of Oz. “I wish the Scarecrow would
come back. He’s so clever I’m sure he could help us; but first you had
better bring me the magic box.”

Pompa rose slowly and, picking up all the little flasks and boxes that
had spilled out when Wag pounded Ruggedo, he put them back into the
casket and handed it to Ozma. She examined the contents as curiously as
the others had done. The Expanding Extract was the only thing missing,
for Ruggedo had poured the whole bottle over his head. The Question Box
seemed to Ozma the most wonderful of all of Glegg’s magic.

“Why, all we have to do is to ask this box questions,” she cried in
excitement. “Has my palace reached the Emerald City?” she asked
breathlessly.

“Shake it three times,” said Pompa, as Ozma looked in vain for her
answer.

“Yes,” stated the box after the third shake, and Ozma sighed with
relief.

“I suppose you asked it if I were the Proper Princess mentioned in the
scroll,” she said, a bit shyly.

The Prince shook his head. “Knew without asking,” said Pompa heavily.

“Do you mean to say you never asked it that?” gasped Ozma in disbelief.
“Why, I am surprised at you.” And before Pompa could object she shook
the little box briskly. “Who is the Princess that Pompa must marry?” she
demanded anxiously.

“The Princess of Sun Top Mountain,” flashed the Question Box promptly.
Then, as an afterthought, it added, “Trust the mirror and golden door
knob!”

“Now, you see!” cried Ozma, jumping up in delight. “I wasn’t the Proper
Princess at all!”

Pompa smiled faintly, but without enthusiasm. The thought of hunting
another Princess was almost too much. “I wish I could just take Peg Amy
and Wag and go back to Pumperdink without marrying anybody,” he choked
bitterly.

“Now, don’t give up,” advised Ozma kindly. “It was very wrong of Glegg
to cause you all this trouble. I’m going to keep his box of Mixed Magic
and take away all his powers when I find him, but until I do, you’ll
have to follow directions. Oh mercy! What’s that?”

They both ducked and turned around in a hurry, as a terrific thumping
sounded behind them.

“It’s the Runaway Country again,” cried Pompa, seizing Ozma’s hands in
distress, “and it’s caught all the others.”

The Scarecrow had climbed a tree, and was waving to them wildly as the
Country galloped nearer. “Might as well come aboard,” he called
genially. “This is a fast Country—no arguing with it at all.”

Ozma looked helplessly at Pompa, and the Prince had only time to grasp
her more firmly when the Country scooped them neatly into the air. Down
they tumbled, beside Peg Amy and Wag and the Elegant Elephant.

“What do you mean by this?” demanded Ozma, as soon as she regained her
breath.

“Don’t you know this lady is the Ruler of all Oz?” cried Pompa
warningly.

“Peg’s the Ruler of me,” replied the Country calmly. “I nearly lost her
once, but now I’ve caught her and all the rest, and I am not going to
stop until I’ve reached the Nonestic Ocean—giants or no giants.”

Ozma had been somewhat prepared for the Runaway Country by Pompa’s
description, but she had never dreamed it would dare to run off with
her. While Peg Amy began to coax it to stop, she took out Glegg’s little
Question Box.

“How shall I stop this Country?” she whispered anxiously.

“Spin around six times and cross your fingers,” directed the Question
Box.

This Ozma proceeded to do, much to the agitation of the Scarecrow, who
thought she had taken leave of her senses. But next instant the Country
came to a jolting halt.

“Peg, Princess Peg!” shrieked the Island. “I am bewitched, I can’t move
a step!”

“Then everybody off,” shouted the Scarecrow, jerking a branch of a tree
as if he were a conductor. “End of the line—everybody off!” And they
lost no time tumbling off the wild little Country.

“It seems too bad to leave it,” said Peg Amy regretfully, picking
herself up.

“It threw us off without any feeling or consideration when it saw
Ruggedo,” sniffed Kabumpo. “Therefore it has no claims on us
whatsoever.”

“But couldn’t you do something for it?” asked Peg, approaching Ozma
timidly. “It’s so tired of being a plateau. Couldn’t you let it be an
island, and find someone to settle on it? I wouldn’t mind going,” she
added generously.

“You shall do nothing of the sort,” cried Kabumpo angrily. “You’re going
back to Pumperdink with Pompa and me.”

“She’s going with me,” cried Wag. “Aren’t you, Peg?”

“You seem to be a very popular person,” smiled Ozma. “While a Country
has no right to run away, and while I never heard of one doing it
before, I’ve no objections to its being an island. It’s running off with
people I object to.” She looked the Country sternly in its lake-eyes.

“But I can’t move,” screamed the Country, tears streaming down its hill,
“and I’ve got to have somebody to settle me.”

“Oh! Here’s Glinda,” shouted the Scarecrow, tossing up his hat. “Now we
shall know what’s happened to Ruggedo.”

Leaving the Country for a moment, they all ran to welcome the good
Sorceress of Oz. Glinda’s reports were most satisfactory. Ruggedo had
walked straight back to the Emerald City, stepped into the yawning
cavern, and immediately the palace had settled firmly upon its old
foundations. Then had come a muffled explosion, and when Glinda and
Dorothy ran through the secret passage, which had been discovered
meanwhile by the Soldier with the Green Whiskers, they saw Ruggedo,
shrunken to his former size, sitting angrily on his sixth rock of
history.

“I have locked him up in the palace,” finished Glinda, “and I strongly
advise your Highness to punish him severely.”

Ozma sighed. “What would you do?” she asked, appealing to the Scarecrow.
So many things had come up for her attention and advice in the last few
hours that the little fairy ruler felt positively dizzy.

“Let’s all sit down in a circle and think,” proposed the Scarecrow
cheerfully. This they all did except Kabumpo, who stood off glumly by
himself. Peg was looking anxiously at Pompadore, for the Elegant
Elephant had told her of Ozma’s refusal, and wondering sadly what she
could do to help, when the Scarecrow bounced up impulsively.

“I have it,” chuckled the Straw Man. “Let’s send Ruggedo off on the
Runaway Country. He deserves to be banished and, if Ozma makes the
Country an Island, he can do no harm.”

Here Ozma had to stop and explain to Glinda about the Country that
wanted to be an Island, and after a short consultation they decided to
take the Scarecrow’s advice.

“Just as soon as I reach the Emerald City I’ll put on my Magic Belt and
wish him onto the Island,” declared Ozma. “And I think we’d better go
right straight back,” she added thoughtfully, “for it’s growing darker
every minute and Dorothy will be anxious to hear everything that’s
happened.”

“Now you”—Ozma tapped Pompadore gently on the arm—“You must start at
once for Sun Top Mountain. I’m going to ask the Question Box just where
it is.”

Pompa sighed deeply, and when Ozma consulted the Question Box as to the
location of Sun Top Mountain, it stated that this Kingdom was in the
very Centre of the North Winkie Country. “That’s fine,” said Ozma,
clapping her hands. “I’ll have the Runaway country carry you over the
Deadly Desert, and as soon as you have married the Princess you must
bring her to see me in the Emerald City.”

“What’s all this?” demanded Kabumpo, pricking up his ears.

“The Question Box says I must marry the Princess of Sun Top Mountain,”
said Pompa, getting up wearily.

“Well, Great Grump, why couldn’t it have said so before?” asked Kabumpo
shrilly.

“You never asked it,” snapped Wag, twitching his nose. “I told you Ozma
wasn’t the Princess mentioned in the scroll!”

“Now don’t quarrel,” begged Peg Amy, jumping up hastily. “There’s still
plenty of time to save Pumperdink. Come along, Pompa.”

“That’s right,” said Ozma, smiling approvingly at Peg. “And when Pompa
finds his Princess you must come and live with me in the Emerald City,
for as Ruggedo was responsible for bringing you to life, I want to take
care of you always.”

Peg Amy dropped a curtsey and promised to come, but she didn’t feel very
cheerful about it. Then, as Ozma was anxious to get back to the Emerald
City, they all hurried to Runaway Country.

“You are to take these travelers across the Deadly Desert,” said Ozma,
addressing the Runaway Country quite sternly, “and you are to set them
down in the Winkie Country. If you do this I will restore your moving
power again and give you a little gnome for King. Then you may run off
to the Nonestic Ocean as soon as ever you wish.”

“I want Peg,” pouted the Country, “but if that’s the best you can do I
suppose I’ll have to stand it.” After a little more grumbling it agreed
to Ozma’s terms. Wearily, Kabumpo, Wag, Peg and Pompa climbed aboard and
then Ozma spun around six times in the opposite direction and
immediately the Country found itself able to move again.

“Good-bye!” called Ozma, as she and the Scarecrow jumped into Glinda’s
chariot. “Good-bye and good luck!”

“Good-bye!” called Peg, waving her old torn bonnet.

“Good riddance,” grumbled the Country gruffly and, turning sideways,
began running toward the Deadly Desert.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 20
                     The Proper Princess Is Found!


“Is the mirror safe, and have you still got the gold door knob?” asked
Pompa, as the Country swung out onto the Deadly Desert. “The Question
Box said I was to trust them, you know.”

“And by what right did Ozma take that box?” wheezed Kabumpo irritably,
as he felt in his pocket to see whether the magic articles were still
there.

“That’s gratitude for you! We find Glegg’s box of Mixed Magic and rescue
her, and off she goes with all our magic, leaving us to the tender
mercies of a Runaway Country!”

“You find the box!” shrilled Wag. “Well, I like that!”

“Oh, what difference does it make?” groaned Pompa, stretching out upon
the ground. They were all completely exhausted by the day’s adventures
and as cross as three sticks—all except Peg Amy, who never was cross.

“I shall marry this Princess and save my country, but I’m going away as
soon as the wedding is over and spend the rest of my life in travel,”
announced Pompa gloomily.

“Don’t blame you,” rumbled the Elegant Elephant with a sniff.

“Ah, now!” laughed Peg. “That doesn’t sound like you, Pompa. Why, maybe
this Princess will be so lovely you’ll want to carry her straight back
to Pumperdink.”

“I think Princesses are a great bore,” said Wag with a terrific yawn. “I
prefer plain folks like Peg and the Scarecrow.”

“You’re all hungry, that’s what’s the matter,” chuckled the Wooden Doll.
“When you’ve had some supper you’ll be just as anxious to find the
Princess of Sun Top Mountain as you were to find Ozma. Here’s the Winkie
Country now, and there’s a star for good luck.”

Peg waved toward the green fields with one hand and toward the clouds
with the other. It was dusk now and just one star twinkled cheerily in
the sky.

“I’ll set you down, but I’m not going away,” said the Runaway Country
determinedly, “for if that little old gnome doesn’t turn up I’m going to
catch you all again.”

“Ozma never forgets. She’ll keep her promise,” said Peg. “And you must
do just as she told you to do for she has some powerful magic and can
send you right back to where you came from.”

“Can she?” gulped the Country anxiously.

“You might wait a while, though,” suggested Pompa darkly. “After I’ve
seen this new Princess a Runaway Country might be a very good thing.”

“Well, you can’t expect her to marry you if you talk that way,” said Peg
warningly, as the Country came to a stop in a huge field of daisies.

“I’ll wait,” it said hopefully, as the four travelers swung themselves
down.

“I wonder if we are in the North Central part,” murmured Peg Amy,
looking around anxiously. Now it happened the Country had crossed the
Deadly Desert slantwise and although none of the party knew it they were
scarcely a mile from Sun Top Mountain.

“I see a garden!” cried Wag, twitching his nose hungrily. “Come on,
Prince, let’s find some supper.” With head down and dragging his feet,
Pompa followed Wag. Kabumpo began jerking snappishly at some tree tops
and Peg Amy sat down to think.

“I wish,” thought the Wooden Doll, looking up at the bright star, “I
wish I might have asked the box one little question.” Peg Amy looked so
solemn that Kabumpo stopped eating and regarded her anxiously.

“What’s the matter?” asked the Elegant Elephant gruffly, for he quite
counted on Peg’s cheerfulness.

“I was thinking about it again,” admitted Peg apologetically. “About
being alive before. I’m sure I was alive before I was a doll, Kabumpo. I
think I was a person, like Pompa,” she continued softly.

“You’re much better as you are,” said the Elegant Elephant uneasily, for
it had just occurred to him that the Magic Mirror would tell Peg who she
was as well as the Question Box. But should he let her look in it? That
was the question. Poor, tired old Kabumpo shifted from one foot to the
other as he tried to make up his mind. Two huge drops of perspiration
ran down his trunk. What good would it do? he reasoned finally. Suppose
it told something awful! It couldn’t change her and it might make her
unhappy. No, he would not let Peg look in the mirror.

“How would you like to have this pearl bracelet?” he asked in an
embarrassed voice.

“Why, Kabumpo, I’d just adore it!” cried Peg, springing up in a hurry.
“And I’m not going to worry about being alive any more, for everyone is
so lovely to me I ought to be the happiest person in Oz.”

“You are,” puffed Kabumpo, clumsily slipping the bracelet on Peg’s
wooden arm, “and if we ever get back to Pumperdink you shall have as
many silk dresses as you want and—” The rest of the sentence was
smothered in a hug.

Peg Amy was growing fonder and fonder of pompous old Kabumpo and by the
time he had recovered his breath Wag and the Prince came ambling back
together. They had found an orchard and a kitchen garden and as they
were no longer hungry, both were more cheerful.

“Let’s play scop hotch,” suggested Wag amiably. “I’m tired of hunting
Princesses.” There was a smooth patch of sand under the trees and Wag
hopped over and began marking out the squares with his paw.

“Scop hotch!” laughed Pompa, While Peg gave a skip of delight.

“Play if you want to,” wheezed Kabumpo, shaking himself wearily, “I feel
about as playful as a stone lion. Besides, hop scotch isn’t an elephant
game.”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

Peg, Wag and Pompa began to hop scotch for dear life. Peg often tumbled
over, for it is hard to keep your balance on wooden legs, but it was Peg
who won in the end and Wag crowned her with daisies.

“I wish we could go on just as we are,” gasped Pompa, mopping his face
with his silk handkerchief. “We’re all good chums and, if it weren’t for
Pumperdink’s disappearing, we might travel all over Oz and have no end
of adventures together.”

“Speaking of disappearing,” said Kabumpo, opening one eye, for he had
dozed off during the game, “I suppose we’d better be starting if we’re
to save the Kingdom at all.”

“Good-bye to pleasure,” sighed Pompa, as Kabumpo lifted him to his back.
“Good-bye to everything!”

“Oh, cheer up,” begged Peg, settling herself on Wag’s back.

“Hurrah! Hurrah! Hurrah!” A large yellow bird rose suddenly from a
near-by bush and flapped its wings over Pompa’s head. “Hurrah! Hurrah!”

“Shoo! Get away!” grumbled Kabumpo crossly. “What are you cheering
about?”

“She said to,” cawed the bird, darting over Peg Amy’s head. “Hurrah!
Hurrah! Hurrah! Let me teach you how to be cheerful in three chirps.
First, think of what you might have been; next, think of what you are;
then think of what you are going to be. Do you get it?” The bird put its
head on one side and regarded them anxiously.

“He might have been King of Oz, instead of which he is only a lost
Prince, and he’s going to be married to a mountain top Princess. Do you
see anything cheerful about that?” demanded Kabumpo angrily. “Clear out!
We’ll do our own cheering.”

“Shall I go?” asked the Hurrah Bird, looking very crestfallen and
pointing its claw at Peg Amy.

“Maybe you can tell us the way to Sun Top Mountain,” said Peg politely.

“You can see it from the other side of the hill,” replied the Hurrah
Bird. “I’ll give you a few hurrahs for luck. Hurrah! Hurrah! Hurrah!”

“Oh, go away,” grumbled Kabumpo.

“Not till you look at my nest. Did you ever see a Hurrah Bird’s nest?”
he chirped brightly.

“Let’s look at it,” said Pompa, smiling in spite of himself. The Hurrah
Bird preened itself proudly as they peered through the bushes. Surely it
had the gayest nest ever built, for it was woven of straw of many
colors, and hung all over the near-by branches were small Oz flags. In
the nest three little yellow chicks were growing up into Hurrahs and
they chirped faintly at the visitors.

“Remember,” called the Father Hurrah, as they bade him good-bye, “you
can always be cheerful in three chirps if you think of what you _might_
have been, what you _are_, and what you are going to be. Hurrah! Hurrah!
Hurrah!”

“There’s something in what you’ve said,” chuckled Wag. “Good-bye!”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

The moon had come up brightly and even Kabumpo began to feel more like
himself. “There’s a lot to be learned by traveling, eh, Wag?” He winked
at the rabbit, who was just behind him. “Let’s see—somersaults for
sums—never be gormish—and now, how to be cheerful in three chirps.
Hurrah! Hurrah! Hurrah!” The Elegant Elephant began to plow swiftly
through the daisy field, so that in almost no time they reached the top
of the little hill and as they did so Peg gave a little scream of
delight. As for the others, they were simply speechless.

A purple mountain rose steeply ahead, and set like a crown upon its
summit was a glittering gold castle, the loveliest, laciest gold castle
you could imagine, with a hundred fluttering pennants. All down the
mountain side spread its lovely gardens, its golden arbors and flower
bordered paths.

[Illustration: At the top of the mountain the loveliest castle you could
imagine]

“I’ve seen it before!” cried the Wooden Doll softly, but no one heard
her. Pompa drew a deep breath, for the castle, shimmering in the
moonlight, seemed almost too beautiful to believe.

“Whe-ew!” whistled Wag, breaking the silence. “The Princess of Tun Sop
Wountain must be wonderful.”

“Shall we start up now?” gasped Kabumpo, swinging his trunk nervously.

“I don’t believe she’ll ever marry me. Let’s don’t go at all,” muttered
the Prince of Pumperdink in a shaking voice.

“Oh, come on!” called Wag, who was curious to see the owner of so grand
a castle.

“But we mustn’t go, Wag,” gasped Peg Amy. “How would it look to have a
shabby old doll tagging along when he’s trying to talk to the Princess?”

“If Peg doesn’t go, I’m not going,” declared Pompa stubbornly.

“You’re just as good as any Princess,” said Kabumpo, “and I’m not going
without you, either.”

As the Elegant Elephant refused to budge and there seemed no other way
out of it, Peg Amy finally consented and the four adventurers started
fearfully up the winding path, almost expecting the castle to disappear
before they reached the top, so unreal did it seem in the moonlight.
There was no one in the garden but there were lights in the castle
windows. “Just as if they expected us,” said the Elegant Elephant, as
they reached the tall gates. Pompa opened the gates and next instant
they were standing before the great castle door.

“Shall we knock?” chattered Wag, his eyes sticking out with excitement.

“No! Wait a minute,” begged the Prince, who was becoming more agitated
every minute.

“Here’s the mirror and the door knob,” quavered Kabumpo. “Didn’t the
Question Box say to trust them? Why, look here, Pompa, my boy, it fits!”
Clumsily, Kabumpo held up the glittering door knob he had brought all
the way from Pumperdink; then he slipped it easily on the small gold bar
projecting from the door.

But instead of looking joyful Pompa groaned dismally. He started to
protest but Kabumpo had already turned the knob and they found
themselves in a glittering gold court room.

“Now for the Princess,” puffed Kabumpo, looking around with his
twinkling little eyes. “Here, take the mirror, Pompa.” The room was
empty, although brilliantly lighted, and the Prince stood uncertainly in
the very center. Suddenly, with a determined little cry, Pompa rushed
over to Peg Amy, who stood leaning against a tall gold chair.

“Peg,” choked Pompa, dropping on his knees beside the Wooden Doll, “I’ll
have to find some other way to save Pumperdink. I’m not going to marry
this Princess and have you taken away from me. You’re a proper enough
Princess for me and we’ll just go back to Pumperdink and be—”

“The mirror! Look in the mirror!” screamed Wag, who was sitting beside
Peg Amy.

[Illustration: There stood Peg Amy, the Loveliest Little Princess in the
world]

Unconsciously, Pompa had held out the gold mirror and Peg, leaning over
to listen, had looked directly into it. Above Peg’s pleasant reflection
in the mirror they read these startling and important words:

             This is Peg Amy, Princess of Sun Top Mountain.

While Pompa stared with round eyes the words faded out and this new
legend formed in the glass:

                      This is the Proper Princess.

“I always knew you were a Princess,” cried Wag, turning a somersault.

The big rabbit had just come right-side-up, when a still more amazing
thing happened. The wooden body of Peg melted before their eyes and in
its place stood the loveliest little Princess in the world. And yet,
with all her beauty, she was strangely like the old Peg. Her eyes had
the same merry twinkle and her mouth the same pleasant curve.

“Oh!” cried Princess Peg, holding her arms out to her friends. “Now I am
the happiest person in Oz!”

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 21
                         How It All Came About


Before Pompa had time to rise, a tall, richly clad old nobleman rushed
into the room.

“Peg!” cried the old gentleman, clasping the Princess in his arms. “You
are back! At last the enchantment is broken!”

For a moment the two forgot all about Pompa and the others. Then, gently
disengaging herself, Peg seized the Prince’s hands and drew him to his
feet.

“Uncle,” she said breathlessly, holding to Pompa with one hand and
waving with the other at Kabumpo and Wag, “here are the friends
responsible for my release. This is my Uncle Tozzyfog,” she explained
quickly, and impulsively Uncle Tozzyfog sprang to his feet and embraced
each in turn—even Kabumpo.

“Sit down,” begged the old nobleman, sinking into a golden chair and
mopping his head with a flowered silk kerchief.

Pompa, who could not take his eyes from this new and wonderful Peg Amy,
dropped into another chair. Kabumpo leaned limply against a pillar and
Wag sat where he was, his nose twitching faster than ever and his ears
stuck out straight behind him.

“You are probably wondering about the change in Peg,” began Uncle
Tozzyfog, as the Princess perched on the arm of his chair, “so I’ll try
to tell my part of the story. Three years ago an ugly old peddlar
climbed the path to Sun Top Mountain. He said his name was Glegg and,
forcing his way into the castle, he demanded the hand of my niece in
marriage.”

Peg shuddered and Uncle Tozzyfog blew his nose violently at the
distressing memory. Then, speaking rapidly and pausing every few minutes
to appeal to the Princess, he continued the story of Peg’s enchantment.
Naturally the old peddlar had been refused and thrown out of the castle.
That night as Uncle Tozzyfog prepared to carve the royal roast, there
came an explosion, and when the Courtiers had picked themselves up Peg
Amy was nowhere to be seen, and only a threatening scroll remained to
explain the mystery. Glegg, who was really a powerful magician,
infuriated by Uncle Tozzyfog’s treatment, had changed the little
Princess into a tree.

“Know ye,” began the scroll quite like the one that had spoiled Pompa’s
birthday, “know ye that unless ye Princess of Sun Top Mountain consents
to wed J. Glegg she shall remain a tree forever, or until two shall call
and believe her to be a Princess. J. G.”

The whole castle had been plunged into utmost gloom by this terrible
happening, for Peg was the kindliest, best loved little Princess any
Kingdom could wish for. Lord Tozzyfog and nearly all the Courtiers set
out at once to search for the little tree and for two years they
wandered over Oz, addressing every hopeful tree as Princess, but never
happening on the right one. Finally they returned in despair and Sun Top
Mountain, once the most cheerful Kingdom in all Oz, had become the
gloomiest. There was no singing, nor dancing—no happiness of any kind.
Even the flowers had drooped in the absence of their little Mistress.

“Why didn’t you appeal to Ozma?” demanded Pompa at this point in the
story.

“Because in another scroll Glegg warned us that the day we told Ozma,
Peg Amy would cease to even be a tree,” explained Uncle Tozzyfog
hoarsely.

“Then how did she become a doll? Tell me that, Uncle Fozzytog,” gulped
Wag, raising one paw.

“She’ll have to tell you that herself,” confessed Peg’s uncle, “for
that’s all of the story I know.”

So here Peg took up the story herself. The morning after her
transformation into a tree Glegg had appeared and asked her again to
marry him. “I was a little yellow tree, in the Winkie Country, not far
from the Emerald City,” explained Peg, “and every day for two months
Glegg appeared and gave me the power of speech long enough to answer his
question. And each time he asked me to marry him but I always said
‘No!’” The Princess shook her yellow curls briskly.

[Illustration: “Every day Glegg returned and asked me to marry him, but
I always said ‘No’!” explained Peg]

“One afternoon there came a one-legged sailor man and a little girl.”
Even Kabumpo shuddered as Peg Amy told how Cap’n Bill had cut down the
little tree, pared off all the branches and carved from the trunk a
small wooden doll for Trot.

“It didn’t hurt,” Princess Peg hastened to explain as she caught Pompa’s
sorrowful expression, “and being a doll was a lot better than being a
tree. I could not move or speak but I knew what was going on and life in
Ozma’s palace was cheerful and interesting. Only, of course, I longed to
tell Ozma or Trot of my enchantment. I missed dear Uncle Tozzyfog and
all the people of Sun Top Mountain. Then, as you all know, I was stolen
by the old gnome and after Ruggedo carried me underground I forgot all
about being a Princess and remembered nothing of this.” Peg glanced
lovingly around the room. “I only felt that I had been alive before. So
you!” Peg jumped up and flung one arm around Wag, “and you,” she flung
the other around Pompa, “saved me by calling me a Princess and really
believing I was one. And you!” Peg hastened over to Kabumpo, who was
rolling his eyes sadly. “You are the darlingest old elephant in Oz! See,
I still have the necklace and bracelet!” And sure enough on Peg’s round
arm and white neck gleamed the jewels the Elegant Elephant had
generously given when he thought her only a funny Wooden Doll.

“Oh!” groaned Kabumpo. “Why didn’t I let you look in the mirror before?
No wonder you kept remembering things.”

“But why did Glegg send the threatening scroll to Pumperdink three years
after he’d enchanted Peg?” asked Wag, scratching his head.

“Because!” shrilled a piercing voice, and in through the window bounded
a perfectly dreadful old man. It was Glegg himself!

[Illustration: “In through the window bounded a perfectly dreadful old
man”]

“Because!” screeched the wicked magician, advancing toward the little
party with crooked finger, “when that meddling old sailor touched Peg
with his knife I lost all power over her; because my Question Box told
me that Pompadore of Pumperdink could bring about her disenchantment and
he has. I made it interesting for you, didn’t I? There isn’t another
magician in Oz can put scrolls up in cakes and roasts like I can nor mix
magic like mine. Ha! Ha!” Glegg threw back his head and rocked with
enjoyment. “You have had all the trouble and I shall have all the
reward!”

Everyone was so stunned by this terrible interruption that no one made a
move as Glegg sprang toward Peg Amy. But before he had reached the
Princess there was a queer sulphurous explosion and the magician
disappeared in a cloud of green smoke. They rubbed their eyes and as the
smoke cleared they saw Trot, the little girl who had played with Peg Amy
when she was a Wooden Doll.

“Ozma,” explained Trot breathlessly, for she had come on a fast _wish_.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

After following the adventures of Pompa and Peg in the Magic Mirror, and
as the magician had tried to snatch the Princess, Ozma had transported
him by means of her Magic Belt to the Emerald City, and sent Trot to
bring her best wishes to the whole party.

“I’m sorry I didn’t make you a prettier dress when you were my doll,”
said Trot, seizing Peg Amy’s hand impulsively, “but you see I didn’t
know you were a Princess.”

“But you guessed my name,” said Peg softly.

There were so many explanations to be made and so many things to wonder
over and exclaim about, that it seemed as if they could never stop
talking.

Uncle Tozzyfog rang all the bells in the castle tower and stepping out
on a balcony told the people of Sun Top Mountain of the return of
Princess Peg Amy. Then the servants were summoned and such a feast as
only an Oz cook can prepare was started in the castle kitchen. The
Courtiers came hurrying back, for during Peg’s absence Uncle Tozzyfog
had lived alone in the castle. Yes, the Courtiers came back and the
people of Sun Top Mountain poured into the castle in throngs and nearly
overwhelmed the rescuers by the enthusiasm of their thanks.

Kabumpo had never been so admired and complimented in his whole elegant
life. As for Wag, his speech grew more mixed up every minute. At last,
when the Courtiers and Uncle Tozzyfog had run off to dress for the grand
banquet, and after Trot had been magically recalled by Ozma to the
Emerald City, the four who had gone through so many adventures together
were left alone.

“Well, how about Pumperdink, my boy?” chuckled Kabumpo, with a wave of
his trunk. “Are we going to let the old Kingdom disappear or not?”

“It is my duty to save my country,” said Pompa loftily. Then, with a
mischievous smile at Peg Amy, “Don’t you think so, Princess?” Peg Amy
looked merrily at the Elegant Elephant and then took Pompa’s hand.

“Yes, I do,” said the Princess of Sun Top Mountain.

“Then, you _will_ marry me?” asked Pompa, looking every inch a Prince in
spite of his singed head and torn clothes.

“We must save Pumperdink, you know,” sighed Peg softly.

“Three cheers for the Princess of Pumperdink! May she be as happy as the
day is short!” cried Wag in his impulsive way.

Uncle Tozzyfog was as pleased as Wag when he heard the news, and Pompa,
attired in a royal gold embroidered robe, was married to Peg Amy upon
the spot, with much pomp and magnificence.

Never before was there such rejoicing—a merrier company or a happier
bride. Kabumpo, arrayed in two gold curtains borrowed for the happy
occasion, had never appeared more elegant and Wag was everywhere at once
and simply overwhelmed with attention.

That same night a messenger was dispatched to Pumperdink to carry the
good news and the next morning Pompa and Peg set out for the Emerald
City, the Princess riding proudly on Wag and Pompadore on Kabumpo.
Knowing the whole four as you now do, you will believe me when I say
that their journey was the merriest and most delightful ever recorded in
the merry Kingdom of Oz.

After a short visit with Ozma and another to the King and Queen of
Pumperdink they all returned to Sun Top Mountain, where they are living
happily at this very minute.

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]




                               Chapter 22
                          Ruggedo’s Last Rock


There are only a few more mysteries to clear up before we leave for a
time the jolly Kingdom of Oz. Ruggedo, much shaken by his terrible
experiences with Glegg’s magic, confessed everything to Ozma on her
return to the Emerald City. You can imagine the surprise of the little
Fairy Ruler on learning how her palace had come to be impaled upon the
spikes of the wicked old gnome’s gray head.

“He will nev-er re-form,” said Tik Tok mournfully, as Ruggedo finished
his recital. The bad little gnome assured Ozma that he had reformed and
begged for another chance, but this time Ozma knew better, and putting
on her Magic Belt she whispered a few secret words. Then they all
hurried over to the Magic Picture, for they knew that Ruggedo had been
transported to a safe place at last. The picture showed the Runaway
Country rushing along faster than an express train and dancing up and
down on its highest hill was the furious old King of the Gnomes. They
watched until the Country plunged joyfully into the Nonestic Ocean and,
when it was almost in the middle, Ozma stopped it by the magic spinning
process and it became Ruggedo’s Island.

“Well,” sighed Dorothy as they turned from the picture, “I guess that
will be Ruggedo’s last rock!”

“He’s rocked in the cradle of the deep now,” chuckled the Scarecrow.
“And I hope it quiets him down. They ought to make a good pair—that bad
little Island and that bad little King,” he added reflectively.

[Illustration: “I guess that will be Ruggedo’s last rock,” said Dorothy]

Then Ozma proposed that they follow the adventures of Peg and Pompa,
having so satisfactorily disposed of Ruggedo. How she transported Glegg
just in time to save the Princess you already know. But what happened to
Glegg himself is interesting. When the old magician had asked his
Question Box how to regain control over Peg again it had directed him to
bury his Mixed Magic under the Emerald City and in two years to send the
scroll to Pumperdink. So Glegg had tunneled out the cave under Ozma’s
palace and left his magic in what he supposed was a very safe place. It
had been a great hardship to do without it for two years, but he wanted
Peg so badly that he actually did this, never dreaming that Ruggedo had
moved in and discovered his treasures. The Question Box had told the
exact day Peg would be disenchanted and all that long two years Glegg
had waited, hidden in a forest near Sun Top Mountain.

As he knew nothing of the discovery of his magic box, no one was more
surprised than he to find himself, just as he was on the point of
seizing Peg, transported to the Emerald City.

While Sir Hokus of Pokes held the struggling Glegg, Ozma asked the
Question Box how to deal with him. Everybody crowded around the little
Fairy Ruler to hear what the wicked old magician’s fate was to be.

“Give him a taste of his own magic,” directed the Question Box. “Make
him drink a cup of his Triple Trick Tea.” This Ozma did, although it
took fourteen people to get Glegg to drink it. But, stars! No sooner had
the liquid touched his lips than the miserable old magician went off
with a loud explosion!

                      [Illustration: (unlabelled)]

The box of Mixed Magic was carefully put away in Ozma’s gold safe and
then the whole company—Ozma, Dorothy, Sir Hokus, the Scarecrow and all
the celebrities—devoted themselves to setting the topsy turvy palace to
rights, for they knew by the Magic picture that Pompa and Peg Amy were
coming to visit them.

  “Glegg, Glegg, shake a leg
  And never more, Sir, bother Peg!”

shouted Scraps, as she swept up the black soot Glegg had left when he
exploded. And he never did.
﻿

                            OZOPLANING WITH
                           THE WIZARD OF OZ


_Dear Boys and Girls:_


I often have wondered about the Strat, have not you? Bet a bushel of
peanuts you have! Well, while we've been wondering the Wizard of Oz
has been inventing an Ozoplane to go Strato-sphering! Oh, there's some
pretty high sky-riding in this adventure, I can tell you! And with Dot,
Jellia Jam, the Scarecrow, Cowardly Lion and Tin Woodman along, you can
imagine the thrills and excitement. And the Soldier with Green Whiskers
hopes you'll give him credit for the part _he_ played in the affair!

You know--it's grand to get together over a book once a year and have a
good laugh, isn't it? I'd like to know what makes you laugh loudest and
longest.... I think I laughed most at the Cowardly Lion!

Yours for fun--now, and OZ always!

                               CHAPTERS

       1 At Home with the Wizard of Oz

       2 The Wizard's Spy Glass

       3 Latest Invention of the Wizard of Oz

       4 First Flight of the Oztober

       5 The Spikers

       6 Strut of the Strat

       7 A Most Reluctant Starina

       8 Strut of the Strat Sets Off for Oz

       9 Jellia in a Frightful Jam

      10 The Wizard in Stratovania!

      11 King, King-Double King!

      12 The Flight to Oz

      13 The King of the Kudgers

      14 Azarine the Red

      15 In the Red Castle

      16 Escape from Red Top

      17 The Wizard Gets to Work

      18 Strut of the Strat Arrives in Oz!

      19 The Travellers Return!

      20 Azarine Is Restored to Red Top




[Illustration: Map of Oz]




CHAPTER 1

At Home with the Wizard of Oz


In his big brightly lighted laboratory back of the throne room, the
Wizard of Oz paced impatiently forth and back, his hands clasped
tightly behind him. Every minute or two he would glance at the clock or
dart over to peer out to the already darkening garden.

"Are you sure you told them all, Jellia? Are you sure you told them
tonight?" he asked, turning to the pretty little serving maid who was
setting a table near the fire, for the fall evening was quite cool and
frosty.

"Four--five--six--seven--." Jellia, counting places, nodded her head
firmly to answer the Wizard's question, then stepped back to regard her
handiwork with complete satisfaction. "Oh, doesn't that tiny house in
the center look too cute and cunningish? Real smoke coming out of the
chimney, too. How ever did you manage it, Wiz? And having those silver
slippers at each place for nuts and candies is just, plain beautiful."

"Do you really think so?" The little Wizard positively blushed with
pleasure. "Well, ye see, Jellia, this party is to celebrate Dorothy's
first trip to the Emerald City. That is an exact model of the house
in which she blew from Kansas to Oz in a cyclone, the house that fell
on the wicked witch of the West and destroyed her--all but her silver
slippers. Remember?"

"Ho, everybody remembers that," said Jellia with a toss of her head
that set all her green cap ribbons fluttering. "If I live to be a
million, I'll never forget the day she came to this castle with the
Cowardly Lion, the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman. Not if I live to be
a million! Will I light the candles now, Wiz dear, or wait until they
arrive?"

"Oh, wait till they arrive, by all means. But see here," the Wizard
taking a last look at the party table was plainly distressed. "You've
only seven places, Jellia, and there are eight of us. My idea was to
have everyone immediately associated with Dorothy's first visit, and
that would be, one--Dorothy herself; two--myself; three--yourself;
four--the Cowardly Lion; five--the Scarecrow; six--the Tin Woodman;
seven--the Soldier with Green Whiskers, and eight--the Guardian of the
Gate. Quick, my dear! Another plate for the Guardian of the Gate."

"He's not coming," announced Jellia primly. "He says he has not
deserted his post for forty years and does not intend to desert it now.
But if you'll send his refreshments to the Guard House, he'll take it
very kindly. I've already fixed him a basket," said Jellia, smoothing
her apron.

"Good old Guardy!" The Wizard absently brushed back the hair he no
longer had, then, hearing voices and steps in the corridor, bounced
over to open the door while Jellia tripped joyously about, lighting
the candles set everywhere in the big work shop. Candle and fire
light are much cozier for parties, and it all looked so cheery and
gay that Dorothy, who was first, stopped short in the doorway with an
exclamation of delight.

"Oh, Wizard! How beautiful! Oh, how I do wish Ozma could see it all!"

"Tut tut!" chuckled the Wizard, leading her into the room. "Ozma is
having a fine time in Glinda's palace, by now. To tell the truth,
Dorothy, this party is just for YOU and to remind us all of the old Oz
days when--"

"--You were nothing but a humbug," snorted the Scarecrow, laughing so
hard he had to lean against the door jam.

"Don't forget he gave you your famous brains, friend." The Tin Woodman
spoke reprovingly, for Nick Chopper did not like anyone's feelings to
be hurt, even in fun. "And don't forget he gave me my splendid heart!"

"And me, my grade A, double distilled, instant acting courage," purred
the Cowardly Lion. Moving over to the fire, the big beast stretched
himself luxuriously on the hearth rug.

"And don't forget our little Wiz was once Supreme Ruler of Oz!" boomed
the Soldier with Green Whiskers. Marching three times round the party
table the thin, immensely tall soldier brought up with a smart salute
before their embarrassed little host.

"Three cheers for the Wizard of Oz!" cried Jellia Jam. Seizing a
silver bell with an emerald clapper, she rang it so hard the Cowardly
Lion's mane blew straight back and even the candles flickered.

"Thank you! Thank you very much!" The Wizard bowed and rubbed his ear
which still tingled from the cheers and bell ringing. "But where is
Toto, Dorothy? I thought of course you'd bring your little dog."

"Oh, Toto's with Ozma," explained Dorothy, drawn in spite of herself
to the brightly decorated party table. "You know how he dotes on
travelling, so Ozma took him along for company."

"Then of course he cannot be here?" sighed the Wizard regretfully. "Now
Jellia, off with that cap and apron. Tonight you are my guest and not a
maid in waiting to Ozma or anyone else. Besides, I've asked Fredjon to
serve the supper. Dorothy, suppose you sit at the head. I'll sit at the
foot and the others may find their own places."

"My place will always be next to little Dorothy," rumbled the Cowardly
Lion, hoisting himself sleepily to the chair beside the little girl.

"Mine will be next to the pickles. MM-mmmm! I LOVE pickles," said the
soldier, slipping into the seat next to the lion, while Jellia, with a
purposeful bounce, settled near a plate of green cookies. There was no
doubt where the Tin Woodman and Scarecrow would sit, for at one plate
the Wizard had put a silver box of metal polish and an emerald bottle
containing purest oil. Then, instead of a chair, he had provided a bale
of freshly packed straw for the Scarecrow.

"Well, well, here we all are!" Rubbing his hands briskly the Wizard
beamed on his guests as Fredjon, wearing his best suit of green and
silver, bustled in with the first course.

"And isn't it fun to be here?" Dorothy took a long, satisfying sip of
her Ozade. "I'm awfully glad I came back to live in the Land of Oz.
Aren't you, Wizard?"

"A country where a body grows no older, where animals talk as easily
as men and where the practice of magic is not only possible but
practical--a country like that has many advantages," admitted the
Wizard, winking at the Cowardly Lion who was drinking his fruit juice
in a refined way from a huge, green aquarium. "I, myself, never have
regretted the years spent in this marvelous fairy land. Sometimes I
hardly can believe I ever did live in Omaha, or travel through the West
with a circus."

"I know," agreed Dorothy, nodding her head slowly. "Kansas, when I
think of it, seems very far away--as much like a dream, I suppose, as
Oz seems like a dream to boys and girls in Kansas who read Oz history."

"Oh, why think of Kansas?" Jellia spoke scornfully. "In Kansas you were
only an ordinary little girl, while here you are a Princess and second
in importance to our Ruler, Ozma herself."

"And in Kansas," observed the Scarecrow, as Dorothy rather
self-consciously straightened her crown, "I'll bet you never had as
much fun nor as many adventures as we have here." The Scarecrow, being
well stuffed with straw, never indulged in any refreshments. In fact,
he just came to parties for the conversation, and to be sure of a good
time he tried to do all the talking himself.

"That's right," said Dorothy thoughtfully, "That cyclone was about the
only thing that ever happened in Kansas."

"A great blow to you, my dear, but a fortunate thing for Nick and me."
The Scarecrow patted the Tin Woodman affectionately on the funnel he
wore for a hat. "If you had not blown to Oz, I'd probably still be
hanging on a pole in that cornfield and Nick would be rusting away his
life in the greenwood."

"And in some ways," mused Dorothy, looking dreamily at the model of
her small Kansas house, "in some ways that first adventure always will
seem best. Just imagine how surprised I was to blow all those miles
and find myself in a strange, wonderful country like Oz. The Munchkins
thought I was a sorceress because my house had killed the wicked witch
of the East. Then, the Good Witch of the North told me to put on her
silver shoes and go to the Emerald City to ask the great OZ to send
me home. And on the way I discovered you, and do you remember how
astonished I was when I lifted you down from your pole and found you
really were alive and could talk?"

The Scarecrow nodded cheerfully.

"And remember how we travelled on together till we found the Tin
Woodman?" went on Dorothy. "And Nick told us about the witch who had
enchanted his axe so that it chopped off a leg here, and an arm there,
and finally his head and body, too. And after each accident he'd go to
a tinsmith who made him new tin arms and legs and finally even a body
and a head. You didn't mind being Tin at all, did you, Nick? Except
that day you went out to chop wood and left your oil can at home. Then
that storm came up, your joints rusted and you couldn't move, and there
you had been--rusting and helpless for months!"

"But we hustled back to your hut, fetched the oil can and fixed you up
in fine shape, didn't we, old fellow?" The Scarecrow flung his flimsy
arm around Nick Chopper's shoulder and the Tin Woodman, at the mere
mention of rust, uncorked the emerald bottle and let three drops of oil
slide down his neck.

"I never shall forget your kindness," he told them earnestly, turning
his head first to look at Dorothy and then at the Scarecrow.

"And after that, you came along so the Wizard could give you a new
heart," Dorothy reminded him gaily. "And right afterwards, we met the
Cowardly Lion."

"And he was more afraid of us than we were of him," teased the
Scarecrow, leaning across the table to give the lion a poke.

"Yes, I was just a big coward in those days," admitted the lion,
blinking approvingly at the rare roast Fredjon had brought him instead
of the chicken he was serving the others. "Just a great, big coward! Ho
hum!"

"But not too cowardly to fight for us," said Dorothy, taking quick
little bites of her biscuit, "and to come with us to the Emerald City."

"Oh, that was because I wanted the Wizard to give me some courage,"
roared the lion. "And weren't we surprised when we did reach the
Emerald City to find it all built of green marble, studded with real
emeralds! And remember how the Guardian of the Gate gave us all green
specs, even me, and then led us up to the palace?"

"You looked awfully funny in those specs!" laughed Dorothy. "I'll never
forget how funny!"

"But remember, it was I who carried your messages to Oz," put in the
Soldier with Green Whiskers.

"Of course it was," said Dorothy nodding her head quickly. "You gave
us some splendid advice, Soldier, and Jellia showed us to the grandest
rooms in the castle and loaned me the loveliest dresses to wear."

"I liked you from the very first!" declared Jellia, choking a bit on
her seventh cooky.

"But Old Man Wizzy wouldn't give us a thing!" said the Scarecrow,
waving his napkin toward the head of the table. "He told us we'd have
to kill the Witch of the West before he'd send Dorothy home or grant
any of our requests."

"But, you see--I didn't know any real magic then." The Wizard looked
quite unhappy for he did not like to remember the time before he was a
real Wizard. "And besides, I needed more time."

"Ho ho! You were doing very well for yourself!" chuckled the Scarecrow,
"living in a splendid castle and having the whole country eating out
of your hand. As it happened, we did kill the witch of the West, or at
least Dorothy melted her with a bucket of water and the Winkies were
so tickled they gave us all presents and made Nick their Emperor. So
when we got back at last, you did give me some brand new brains, and
Nick a red plush heart--"

"And me some real red, true-blue courage," grinned the Cowardly Lion,
wiping his mouth delicately with the tip of his tail.

"And you made me Ruler of OZ! Ah!--My Majesty the Scarecrow, Hah--those
were the days!" The Scarecrow thumped his pudgy chest and fairly
glowed, at the memory.

"You would have taken me back to Kansas, too, only your balloon flew
away too fast, didn't it?" Dorothy leaned all the way across the table
to pat the Wizard's arm.

"But don't forget it was I, who told you to go to the palace of Glinda,
the Good Sorceress of the South," interrupted the Soldier with Green
Whiskers again.

"So we all went to Glinda's," rumbled the Cowardly Lion, half closing
his eyes. "And Glinda told Dorothy the Witch's silver shoes would carry
her home and--they did!" There was a little silence following the
lion's last sentence, as if all of Dorothy's friends were recalling
their sorrow at that first parting from their cheerful little comrade.

"But you soon came back," declared the Scarecrow, balancing a fork on
the edge of his tumbler. "And so did our little Wizard."

"Well, to tell the truth, Omaha seemed rather dull after the Emerald
City," admitted the Wizard, motioning for Fredjon to bring on the
dessert. This caused many admiring "Oh's" and "Ah's" when it arrived,
for it was ice cream moulded into small Tin Woodmen, Scarecrows, Lions
and all the other guests. Then, out of a huge, frosted cake the footman
set down before Dorothy, flew four little witches riding green broom
sticks, straight into the fire.

"I tell you it takes a real Wizard to perform a trick like that." Nick
Chopper wagged his head solemnly. "You certainly have made progress
since Ozma made you Chief Magician of the Realm."

"Well--" drawled the Wizard, pushing the pickle dish away from the
Soldier with Green Whiskers who already had eaten twenty-seven and
was looking rather dill. "Magic is like any other science--it takes
practice. Of course, if you are a born fairy like Ozma and the former
rulers of Oz, working spells and charms just comes natural--like
playing the piano by ear. But if you are not a Fairy, you must study
witchcraft and sorcery as I have done with Glinda the Good. It only
has been by continuous study and research that I have managed to
perfect myself in the arts of wizardry."

"Well, how is wizness lately?" inquired the Scarecrow, wrinkling his
cotton forehead at all the big words.

"Fine, just fine!" The Wizard assured him brightly. Marching over
to his desk, he returned with a long, tube-like object resembling a
seaman's spy glass. "This is one of my latest inventions," he confessed
modestly. "Here, take a look." Beaming with anticipation, he pressed
the spy glass into Dorothy's hands.




CHAPTER 2

The Wizard's Spy Glass


With the Wizard's latest invention clapped to one eye and pointed
straight at the Wizard himself, Dorothy peered through the green glass
hardly knowing what to expect. Certainly not what happened, for,
from the other end of the instrument, a composed voice began making
announcements proudly and impressively as a radio speaker.

"You are now looking at Oscar Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkle
Emmanuel Ambroise Diggs," it informed them crisply. "Calls himself Oz
after the first letters of his first two names, as his other initials
spell Pinhead. Born in Omaha, Diggs ran away as a young man to join
a circus where he made balloon ascensions to amuse the crowds, his
balloon bearing his initials O. Z.

"One day in a storm, Oscar's balloon was carried to our wonderful Land
of Oz. At that time, the rightful King of the Country and his son had
been destroyed by Mombi the Witch, who also had enchanted and hidden
away Ozma, the little Granddaughter of this unfortunate monarch.
And four witches had divided the country between them. When the
balloon bearing the name OZ on its side sailed out of the clouds, the
inhabitants instantly hailed the traveller from America as their ruler,
supposing him to be another member of the famous fairy family of Oz.
Unable to return to America, Oz accepted the people's decision with
good grace and ruled the realm for many years. Under his wise direction
the people built this castle and the famous city of Emeralds; and the
four witches, thinking Oz more powerful than they, did not question his
rule or authority.

"Later, when little Dorothy from Kansas arrived in Oz, the Wizard
decided to return with her to the United States, leaving the Scarecrow
to rule in his place. The Scarecrow was deposed by Jinjur and her Army
of Girls. Jinjur, in turn was conquered by Glinda, the Good Witch of
the South, who also forced Mombi to disenchant Ozma, the young and
rightful girl ruler of the realm. Ozma has ruled over Oz ever since.
Not long after Ozma was restored to her throne, the Wizard returned
to Oz and our clever girl ruler made him Chief Magician of the realm.
In this ancient and honorable capacity he has served ever since,
PERIOD--STOP--DROP OR POINT ELSEWHERE!" These last words were
uttered so rudely, Dorothy almost did drop the spy glass.

"My! MY GOODNESS!" gasped the little girl.

"It always says that, when it has told all it knows. You see, it is a
'tell-all-escope.'" explained the Wizard, reaching out for his spy
glass with an embarrassed cough.

"And it certainly tells ALL, all right!" roared the Scarecrow, pushing
back his chair. "Congratulations, my dear Mr. Diggs!"

"Look out! Be careful! Don't you point that thing at me! _Please_
don't!" The big lion simply cowered in his chair, and no wonder he felt
nervous. There had been some pretty savage incidents in that old lion's
life before he met Dorothy and came to live in the Emerald City as a
civilized citizen of Oz. And the thought of the tell-all-escope telling
all it knew about him made the Cowardly Lion positively shudder. But
the others were so busy examining the Wizard's spy glass, they did not
even notice the lion's terrific agitation.

"You know, a thing like that would be of great value to a traveller,"
remarked Nick Chopper, tapping the tell-all-escope thoughtfully with
his tin fingers.

"That's just what I figured," grinned the Wizard, thrusting the
instrument into his pocket. "And, speaking of travelling, I have
something else to show you!"

Clapping on his high hat, Ozma's Chief Magician hastened over to the
door that opened on the garden, signalling for the others to come
along.

Having had experience with inventors before, Dorothy and Jellia
snatched up coats, Dorothy, her own, and Jellia, one of the Wizard's.
Then, followed by the rest of the party, they stepped out into the
sparkling, starlit evening. The Soldier with Green Whiskers, who had
stopped to eat the last pickle in the dish and stuff an extra piece of
cake in his pocket, came last of all. At each step he gave a little
groan, for--all by himself--the soldier had eaten enough for a whole
army. But then, he was a whole army; he was every single man, private,
corporal, captain, major, colonel and general in the entire fighting
force of Oz.

Anxious to exhibit his latest treasure, the Wizard walked rapidly
along, leading the little party across the park, through the Emerald
City, out of the Gates and into the thick woodland beyond.

"Where _do_ you suppose he is taking us?" shivered Jellia, thinking
longingly of the cozy fire back in the laboratory.

"No knowing," giggled the Scarecrow. "But a-hunting we shall go!
A-hunting we shall go! Ta-Ta-Ta-Ta-Ta-Ta-Ta-TAH!" Blowing an imaginary
horn, the Scarecrow pretended to gallop and fell flat on his face, his
legs never being what you really could call reliable.

"Sh--hh!" whispered the Wizard, looking back warningly as the Tin
Woodman jerked the straw man to his feet. "What I am about to show you
has been seen by no one in Oz except my faithful assistants! So please
be more quiet!"

"You mean it's a secret?" whispered Dorothy, skipping forward to catch
up with the Wizard and linking her arm through his.

"Two secrets!" confided Ozma's Chief Magician mysteriously. Pushing
impatiently through the last fringe of trees, the group stepped into a
moonlit clearing.




CHAPTER 3

Latest Invention of the Wizard of Oz


"Ooooooh! A conservatory!" murmured Jellia, blinking at the shining
glass structure that occupied the entire treeless space.

"A barn, if you ask me!" guessed the Scarecrow. "But why build it of
glass, Mr. Wiz?"

"Because glass is the latest and lightest building material known. But
this is no barn, as you'll soon discover." Handing his flashlight to
Dorothy, the Wizard slid back the vast doors, switched on the lights
and stood back, his hands in his pockets, as the little group in
silence and astonishment viewed the two shining planes housed as snugly
as giant butterflys in a glass cocoon.

"Airplanes!" exclaimed Dorothy, when she found her voice at last.

"No, Ozoplanes," corrected the Wizard, trying to keep the excitement
out of his voice. "Somewhat like the planes in America, but more
powerful, for remember, my dear, I had not only the scientific
knowledge of aeronautics available to mortals, but the scientific
knowledge of magic to help me as well!"

"Well!" echoed the Tin Woodman, gazing approvingly at the Wizard's
planes, which, except for their silver wings, might have been huge,
silver-and-glass torpedoes.

"Not for the army, I hope," exclaimed the Soldier, clutching his
whiskers nervously. Being the entire army himself, and quite
old-fashioned and set in his ways, the Soldier felt sure he never could
pilot these gleaming airplanes.

"Oh, No! No! NO!" The Wizard frowned at the mere thought of war. "These
are pleasure planes for travelling and exploring the unknown regions
of the upper air. As soon as Ozma returns from the South, I plan to
present them both to our illustrious young Ruler and arrange for her to
make the first triumphant flight."

"But there are two," said Dorothy a little wistfully. She had hoped to
make the first flight with the Wizard, herself.

"Of course, of course!" he answered in a matter-of-fact way. "Most
experimental flights fail because they depend on _one_ ship. We shall
have two!"

"We?" Dorothy brightened up considerably at the Wizard's plural.

"Yes, we," repeated the Wizard, turning round to smile at the little
girl. "Counting Ozma and those of us here, there will be eight
passengers--four for each plane."

"Now please don't bother about me!" begged the Cowardly Lion, his tail
dragging on the ground at the very thought of flying. "I'd not think of
troubling you. Besides, I'm much too heavy for flying."

"Not at all, not at all," the Wizard reassured him with a wink. "I
have made exact calculations about weight, old fellow, and you and the
Scarecrow balance each other nicely. So don't worry about that."

"Oh, I'm not worrying about _that_!" rumbled the lion, rearing up on
his hind legs to read the names outlined in emeralds on the luminous
sides of the Wizard's ships.

"Ozpril and Oztober!" The lion spoke in a slightly trembling roar.
"Mmmn! Mmmnnnnmn! Kerumph!"

"Why, those are beautiful names," exclaimed Dorothy, tilting back her
head to spell them out for herself.

"I thought they were rather neat," said the Wizard complacently.
"Suitable too, one to rise and one to fall!" Expressively he lifted an
arm and let it fall limply to his side.

"To--to fall?" quavered the lion, dropping to all fours.

"Oh, just in a figurative way, of course." The Wizard shrugged his
shoulders. "You will observe," he went on enthusiastically, "that these
planes need no runway or special track to take off. They really are
balloonaplanes. Note those round packets on the top of the fusilage."
The lion blinked rapidly, for he had no idea that fusilage meant
the body of the plane, but the others nodded quite knowingly. "Well
those," declared the inventor proudly "are my own, patented, balloon
attachments. At the touch of a button, the wings are depressed and the
balloon inflated with a magic gas, lighter than helium, that carries
the ship as high and as far as desired. Then the balloon can be
deflated and the Ozoplane can continue under its own power. But you
will readily see how my ship, with its balloon attachment, has twice
the altitude possibilities of an ordinary airplane. Hah! We shall fly
_higher_ than higher!" boasted the little Wizard, happily.

"Oh, quite!" agreed the Tin Woodman, mounting the ladder of the
Oztober, the Soldier with Green Whiskers pressing nervously at his
heels.

"But how will you move them out of here?" inquired the Scarecrow,
taking off his hat and scratching his cotton head.

"Oh, as to that--" The Wizard pulled a switch just behind him,
whereupon the top of the glass airdrome lifted, like the lid of an
enormous jewel box.

"Hmmmmn! I see!" The Scarecrow slapped his knee and grinned with
appreciation. "Off with the roof! Up with the planes!"

"Exactly!" Seizing the Straw Man's arm, the Wizard urged him toward
the ladder of the Ozpril, Dorothy skipping cheerfully behind them.
After Dorothy plodded the Cowardly Lion, talking to himself in anxious
whispers and growls.

"Be sure not to touch anything over there," called the Wizard, as Nick
and the Soldier with Green Whiskers disappeared into the cabin of the
other plane.

"I'll keep an eye on them," promised Jellia, tripping up the ladder as
lightly as a feather. "Don't give us a thought, Wiz, dear."

"Jellia's so funny!" laughed Dorothy.

"Sensible, too," added the Wizard, helping the little girl over the
high door sill and into the plane. While he and the Scarecrow went
forward to examine the steering gear, Dorothy looked delightedly 'round
the snug little cabin. There were four seats upholstered in pale, green
leather, along one side. The whole top was of thick glass, through
which she could distinctly see the moon and stars winking down at
her. The side walls of the Ozpril were of a silvery grey, with all
trimmings in green. At the back was a small dinette, with chairs and
table locked to the floors as they are on sea-going vessels. A cabinet
full of china, a wall full of charts, a book case full of books and a
tiny kitchen and dressing room, completed the equipment.

"It's just as cozy as a little house," sighed Dorothy contentedly, as
the Cowardly Lion, having glanced round in a discouraged way, seated
himself in one of the green chairs and pressed his nose against the
round window pane. "Won't we have fun, Liony, when we really get off?"

"_Getting off_ will be the best fun of all," sniffed the lion, glancing
briefly at the door. The Lion, as you probably have guessed, felt no
enthusiasm for the trip. Once, much against his will, he had been
carried to an island in the sky, and that experience had been more than
enough. In his own mind he already had decided not to accompany the
Wizard on his proposed flight. Yessir, when the party assembled for the
trip he would just turn up missing and manage to stay behind. Immensely
relieved by this secret decision, he ambled forward.

"You will notice," the Wizard was pointing out briskly, "that I have
done away with all controls and levers. On this board are all the
buttons necessary to operate the ship."

"Looks like an organ," observed Dorothy, squinting at the bright array
of buttons set in the top of the table within easy reach of the first
seat. "Must you play all those stops and starters to guide the plane?"

"Not quite all," smiled the Wizard, "but if we wished to start, I'd
first press this green button to depress the wings and inflate our
balloon. Next, I'd push the button marked 'up' and, if I decided to go
North, this 'North' button, as well. Then I'd use the wheel to hold her
steady, and if I preferred to go up in a gradual way, I'd push this
button marked 'zig.'"

"And I suppose if you saw something interesting, or wished to dodge
a mountain, you'd 'zag,'" suggested the Scarecrow, indicating the
"zag" button with his pudgy finger. "Or you could 'spin,' 'spiral' or
'level-off'--"

"Stop! Stop!" panted the Cowardly Lion, clapping his paw to one eye,
"all this up-zig and down-zig makes me positively giddy!"

"It does seem a little complicated," said Dorothy, looking dubiously at
the Wizard's button-board.

"Why, it's perfectly simple!" the Wizard assured her brightly. "All you
have to do is touch the right buttons at the right time!"

"But--"

The Scarecrow, who had been about to ask another question, whirled
round on one heel, and flopped on his back in the aisle. The Cowardly
Lion skidded rapidly past, to wedge under the little dining table
while Dorothy and the Wizard clung to the steering board to keep from
falling. For--a terrific roar like the tearing of a gigantic sheet
had made the Ozpril tremble like a leaf. There came a sudden flash of
silver smoke, and the gradual dying away of all sound. Then--a complete
and ominous silence.

"WHAT? WHAT!!! Why, it's _gone_!" shouted the Wizard, racing over
to the door and staring amazedly at the empty space occupied a moment
before by the Oztober. Then he glanced up into the starlit expanse of
sky.

"Gone?" Creeping on hands and knees, the Scarecrow peered out to see
for himself. "Why, what right have they to go off like that?" he
demanded, pulling himself up by the door jam. "April comes before
October and goes before October, too. Fall before spring--why, that's
ridiculous! The Ozpril should have led off!"

"Oh, what will become of them?" cried Dorothy in distress, clasping her
hands anxiously. "I'm sure it was a dreadful mistake."

"Mistake!" moaned the Wizard, pushing back his high hat. "Worse than
that, Dorothy! Why, everything is ruined! Here they've gone off
before I even had a chance to _show_ the plane to Ozma. They have no
directions, no supplies; they'll crash, smash or wreck themselves. I
intended to teach Nick Chopper to navigate the plane before we started!"

"But can't we stop them? Can't we go after them?" exclaimed Dorothy,
clutching the Wizard's coat tails.

"Go after them?--Yes! that's the idea, go after them! Of course!"
panted the Wizard, falling over the Cowardly Lion who was making a
stream-lion for the door.

"I was just going back for my over-shoes," wheezed the lion, slinking
rather guiltily into his seat at the Wizard's reproachful glance.

"Stay where you are!" the Wizard directed sharply. "Now then,
steady--everybody steady! Shut that door, Scarecrow, we are about to
ascend." The Wizard bent over the steering board to touch the green
button that would inflate the Ozpril's balloon. "But I never expected
to go without my black bag of magic, an extra vest, or even my bottle
of hair tonic."

"Haven't you any magic at all?" called Dorothy, as the Ozpril began to
vibrate and tremble from the rush of gas into its balloon.

"A little, a little," confessed the Wizard, pressing the buttons marked
"Up" and "South". "Here, Dorothy, take the tell-all-escope and see if
you can catch a glimpse of the Oztober when we are aloft." Grasping the
wheel, the Wizard settled grimly into the pilot's seat. Dorothy had
just time to clutch the tell-all-escope before the Ozpril rose straight
into the air. Lifted and borne by its buoyant gas bag, the graceful
ship pointed toward the stars.




CHAPTER 4

First Flight of the Oztober


Now the start of the Oztober had been nothing like the orderly take-off
of the Ozpril. The first hint Jellia had of their departure was when a
china coffee pot from the open china closet into which she was looking
with great interest, hit her a sharp clip on the chin. Next moment she
was rolling round on the floor of the cabin, dodging all the rest of
the green dishes.

"Oh! Oh! Dishes awful!" choked poor Jellia Jam, not even realizing she
was making a pun.

"Stop!" yelled the Tin Woodman, turning a complete somersault and
coming down on his funnel with one leg hooked through the luggage rack.
"Stop! Who did that?"

"Pickles!" moaned a faint voice from the forward end of the cabin, "Oh,
those pickles!" And that was probably as correct an answer as any to
Nick's indignant question. Even upside down as he was, and subject to
the fierce rocketing of the plane, the Tin Woodman could see a tall,
green figure sprawled across the navigator's table. As he had bent
over to examine the Oztober's steering apparatus, the Soldier with
Green Whiskers had been taken with a violent cramp from the twenty-nine
pickles he had eaten at the party. Falling heavily on the board he had
pushed down ten of the Wizard's bright colored buttons. Following the
directions of all ten, one after the other, the Oztober had exploded
into the air and now, whistling and whirling like a comet bound for
Mars, was charging into the Heavens.

Jellia Jam was too bruised and shaken to do anything but cling to
the side of one of the seats. The Soldier, after his head had been
whacked down three times on the board had lapsed into complete and
utter silence. Only Nick managed to preserve a semblance of his usual
calm and composure. Though severely dented by the plane's take-off,
the Tin Woodman, being of metal, felt no pain. Nor was he subject
to the giddiness that assailed ordinary flesh and bone bodies under
such trying conditions. Even standing on his head did not greatly
inconvenience him, and after the first dreadful shock, he began to
perceive a certain order and rhythm in their flight. This was not
strange.

The Soldier's fall had pressed down the button to inflate the Oztober's
balloon, the "Up" and the "South" buttons, the "fast," "spin,"
"spiral," "zig," "zag," "slow" and "circle" buttons as well. So first,
the Oztober would shoot up, then it would go into a fast spin, and
spiral. The zigs and zags were a little less terrible, and on one of
the slow circles, the Tin Woodman managed to extricate his foot from
the luggage rack. Clattering full length in the aisle, he lay still,
till the next slow circle. Then, leaping to his feet, he rushed forward
and pulled the soldier off the steering board. He had just time to prop
the unconscious army into the third chair, and fall into the pilot's
seat himself, when the Oztober went into another fast spin and spiral.
This rather upset Nick.

He had taken a hasty look at the navigator's table when he entered
the ship and then, more interested in the metal of which the plane
was constructed, had gone tapping about, testing it with his tin
knuckles--intending to return to the steering gear later. He naturally
had supposed that when he pulled the soldier off the board the plane
would slow down or change its course. But nothing of the kind happened.
All the buttons the soldier had fallen on stayed down. Grasping the
wheel, Nick was relieved to find he could steady the Oztober a bit in
this way. Holding to it with one hand, he tried to pull out the "spin"
and "spiral" buttons with the other. But even his strong tin fingers
could not budge them. Next, he glanced frantically over the board for
a "stop" or a "down" button, but the "down" button when he found it,
filled him with apprehension. If they shot down at the speed they were
hurling upward, the plane most certainly would be wrecked. No, decided
Nick, drawing his fingers hastily back from the "down" button--they
were much safer in the air until he learned a little more about flying,
and he'd just have to hang on till he discovered how the Ozoplane
worked.

Grasping the wheel resignedly in both hands, he glanced back to see how
Jellia was faring. Jellia was sitting dizzily in the middle of the
aisle. But she was so encouraged to see Nick actually at the wheel,
that she made her way to him and hung firmly to the arm of his chair.
Just then, the Oztober whirled into its twentieth spin and spiral, and
Jellia--dislodged from the chair--caught at the steering table to save
herself from falling.

"Oh, now you've done it!" gasped Nick, as the Oztober gave a wicked
lurch. "Oh, now--" His voice trailed off into a hoarse squeak, for, as
abruptly as it had started, the plane stopped, and, held aloft by its
still buoyant balloon, swung easily to and fro in the faint wind that
stirred above the clouds. "Say! how did you _do_ it?" Letting go the
wheel, the Tin Woodman seized Jellia by the shoulders.

"What?" panted Jellia. "What did I do?"

"Why, you saved the ship. You stopped her. See, all the buttons are up
again!" Removing Jellia's clutching fingers gently from the table top,
Nick discovered a flat bar on the under side of the board. As soon as
Jellia pressed the bar, all the buttons had popped back to their normal
position. "So THAT'S it!" exclaimed Nick, rubbing his tin forehead
anxiously. "Each time you want to change the course, you press this bar
and then begin all over again."

"But now we're sinking," groaned Jellia. And sinking herself, into the
seat back of Nick, she stared at him with round, desperate eyes.

"Sinking, are we? Well, I'll soon put a stop to _that_!" Pouncing on
the green button to inflate the Oztober's gas bag, Nick pressed it
quickly, for of course, as soon as Jellia had touched the bar, the
buttons all had sprung up and the magic gas had begun to seep out of
the plane's balloon attachment. As it again filled and became taut, the
slow downward drift of the ship ceased, and again it hung motionless
between a cloud and a star. "Now!" breathed the Tin Woodman eyeing the
button board with grim purpose and determination, "Now we can take our
time and start off right."

"Oh, Nick! Must we go through all that again?" Jellia began to cry
softly, drying her eyes on the sash of her party dress. "Oh, Nick, I
never thought flying would be like this. Please can't we just stay as
we are?"

"Certainly not," said the Tin Woodman briskly. "Hanging 'round the sky
is dangerous. We might be hit by a shooting star or even by a meteor.
Now, just trust yourself to me, my dear Jellia. Remember I am the
Emperor of the East!" Nick smote his tin chest a resounding blow. "And
after ruling the Winkies all these years, I surely can handle one small
plane!"

Reassuring himself, if not Jellia, the Tin Woodman searched the array
of buttons for one marked "slow." After he had found it, he slowly
began to map his course. He would continue to fly up, for a time. Next
he would take a horizontal direction until he grew more accustomed to
piloting the Ozoplane. Then, as night passed and the sun rose, he would
zig and zag slowly downward and make a safe landing near the Emerald
City.

The Soldier with Green Whiskers had regained consciousness, only to
fall at once into a heavy slumber. His snores blended nicely with
Jellia's sobs, as Nick Chopper pushed the "up," the "South" and the
"slow" buttons. Braced for a new shock, Jellia grasped the arms of her
seat. But this time the Oztober soared gently and gracefully aloft,
the motion of the plane so smooth and pleasant, Ozma's little Maid in
Waiting soon forgot all her fears. Relaxing against the soft green
cushions, she, too, fell asleep. This left only Nick awake and alert.
But if the Wizard had searched all over Oz, he could not have found
a better pilot than the Tin Woodman. Being practically tireless and
requiring neither food nor rest, he could keep his place at the wheel
for days if necessary. Delighted at the way the Oztober responded
to his clever manipulation of the wheel and buttons, he flew up and
up and on and on, scarcely realizing the distance he was putting
between himself and Oz. Glancing out the round window beside him, Nick
viewed the starry expanse of the upper air with growing interest and
enthusiasm. Sometimes he was almost tempted to waken Jellia to point
out the splendid cloud mountains and cities they were passing. As he
swept along, the sky turned from deep blue to grey and was now suffused
with the rainbow tints of early morning. Switching off the lights, the
Tin Woodman slightly changed his course.

"I really need a lot more practice before I go back or try to make a
safe landing," he observed softly to himself. "It never would do to
crack up a valuable ship like this." But the truth of the matter was,
the Tin Woodman did not wish to turn back. And after all--who was to
insist? The Soldier and Jellia still slept on, and far ahead, between a
bank of fog and an arch of platinum sun rays, loomed a long, lavender
crescent. Nick even fancied he could see people moving about its
glittering surface.

"A new world!" gloated the Tin Woodman, setting his funnel at a more
daring angle. If this were so, he would be its discoverer. Not only
that, but he could claim it for Ozma and win for himself as much honor
and renown as Samuel Salt, the Royal Explorer of Oz. "Even if it's not
inhabited, it would be a good place to practice landing," reflected
Nick happily. So again he pressed the black bar, touched the button to
deflate the Oztober's balloon and raise the wings. For now he wished
to fly horizontally, and the wings would be faster than the gas bag.
Next, touching the "straight-on" and "faster" buttons, and twirling the
wheel expertly, he headed the ship straight for the tip of the lavender
island.




CHAPTER 5

The Spikers


Nick waited until he was well over the crescent before he attempted to
land. As he flew along he planned exactly how he would go about it and
everything worked out as planned, except for one thing. The "slow,"
the "zig" and the "down" buttons brought the Oztober within a foot of
the glittering air Isle, but the "stop" button functioned a bit late.
Instead of stopping on the surface, the plane dropped clear through
with a crash like the smashing of a thousand thin tumblers. Peering up
through a spray of splinters, the Tin Woodman found he had knocked a
jagged hole in the Crescent.

"Attention! Shoulder arms! Company, fall in!" yelled the Soldier with
Green Whiskers. Jolted completely awake, he sprang up in the aisle,
aiming his gun at the ceiling.

"Yes? Yes! Coming, your Majesty!" Jellia, mistaking the musical crash
for the ringing of Ozma's morning bell, rolled sleepily out of her seat
and started down the aisle after the Soldier.

"Now, now--don't be alarmed," remarked Nick Chopper. "I was just trying
to land."

"Land? Where is it? Quick! Let me out of here!" panted Jellia Jam,
remembering all in a rush where she was, and the dreadful experiences
of the night before.

"I see no land," said the Soldier pressing his nose against one of the
windows.

"Well, it certainly looked like land!" The Tin Woodman spoke in a
slightly exasperated voice. The Oztober, still quivering from its
impact with the island, was hanging motionless about ten feet below the
Crescent. "Can't tell about these Sky Countries till you try them."

"I'll bet it's nothing but a cake of ice," shivered Jellia, hugging
herself to keep warm. "Being of tin, I don't suppose you'd notice it
was freezing! I wonder if that stove lights?"

"Ice?" meditated Nick, as Jellia hurried toward the back of the cabin.
"Why, I do believe you are right, my dear. In the upper stratas the air
does become colder. We probably cracked through a frozen cloud!"

Jellia, turning all the switches on the stove, paid little attention to
Nick's scientific discourse. She was too busy warming herself over the
glowing burners.

"If we just had something to cook," sighed the little Oz maid, staring
wistfully into the cupboard beside the stove. But the shelves were
perfectly empty. Reflecting that the Wizard had not had time to stock
up for the flight, Jellia, who was an orderly little soul, began
picking up the china that had broken when it fell from the cabinet the
night before. Rather pompously, the Soldier with Green Whiskers began
to help her.

"Will someone kindly explain what we are doing, flying around in this
dangerous and haphazard manner?" he inquired loftily. "I understood
we were to wait for Ozma's return before we made a trial flight! And
really, you know, I'm needed at home to guard the castle."

"Oh, indeed!" sniffed Jellia. "And who do you suppose started us off,
Mr. Whiskers. Nobody but yourself. A fine pickle you put us in when
you fell on that steering board."

"I?" The Soldier straightened up, aghast.

"Yes, YOU!" declared Jellia. "You and your pickles." Sweeping the rest
of the broken plates into her skirt, she marched to the end of the
cabin and dumped them into the big basket beside the water cooler.
"Goodness knows whether we shall ever get back," she sighed, sinking
despondently into the last seat and staring out the window.

"But we're backing now," muttered the Soldier. This was quite true,
for Nick, to avoid hitting the crescent of ice again, was maneuvering
the plane from beneath; then, feeling it might be dangerous to go any
higher, he began slowly and cautiously to descend. Neither he nor
Jellia paid any more attention to the Soldier with Green Whiskers, who
glanced uncomfortably from one to the other. After a little silence he
remarked in a hollow voice: "I shall consider myself under arrest. I
shall walk guard for two hours without a pause for rest or rations!"

"Oh, don't be a goose!" giggled Jellia. "You'll probably go without
rations because there aren't any. But what good will walking guard do?"

"As Commander-in-Chief, I have sentenced myself to walk guard. As
a first class Private in the Army of Oz, I shall carry out this
sentence," insisted the Soldier. "Discipline must be maintained!"
Hoisting his old fashioned blunder-buss to his shoulder, he began
tramping stiffly up and down the short aisle of the cabin.

Born in a small Munchkin village to a family named Battles who had
promptly christened him Wantowin, he had applied as soon as he was
grown for a position in the army of Oz. The Wizard, then Supreme Ruler
of the Kingdom, impressed by the Soldier's height and long green
whiskers, had immediately hired him. Later he had been promoted by Ozma
to fill the position of the entire staff and army of Oz. Wantowin had
never been much of a fighter, but as war in Oz is practically outlawed,
and victories usually won by magic, he had got on very well. At his
tenth about-face, Wantowin suddenly recalled the piece of cake he had
stuffed into his pocket the night before, and generously offered it to
Jellia.

"Oh, Wanny, how wonderful!" To the famished girl, the cake tasted
even better than it had at the Wizard's party. Breaking it in half,
she tried to force the soldier to eat a piece, but raising his hand
sternly, Wantowin continued his self-imposed sentence. Seeing argument
was useless, Jellia ate her own share and put the other half in the
cupboard for the soldier's supper.

The plane still was slanting smoothly downward. After oiling all of
Nick's joints and thinking how fortunate it was they had brought along
the oil can, Jellia began marching up and down behind the Soldier,
examining the pictures and charts on the wall as she went along.
The cake and a long drink of water from the cooler had done much to
restore her courage and cheerfulness, and an occasional glance out
the window was both pleasant and reassuring. The Oztober was dropping
through fluffs and puffs of creamy cloud. "Just like whipped cream on
strawberries--if we had any strawberries!" mused Jellia, withdrawing
her gaze reluctantly from the window and resuming her march. "Oh, Nick,
here are some directions!" she cried suddenly, stopping before a finely
printed notice beside the water cooler.

"Directions?" The Tin Woodman looked round rather annoyed. He felt he
had almost mastered the mechanism of the Ozoplane and did not care
to start a new system. But the directions that Jellia read off had
nothing to do with the navigation of the plane. They were rules for
the behavior of passengers in the strat. "The air in this cabin has
been magically treated," stated the notice. "So long as the windows and
doors are closed, riders may safely pass through the highest stratas.
On debarking, however, it would be well to don my patent protective air
helmets, see chest beneath second seat, or to take one, for each mile
up, of my elutherated altitude pills, from the recess in the table leg."

Jellia, whose bump of curiosity was larger than most, lost no time
hunting for the helmets. Dragging the chest from beneath the second
seat and paying no attention to the marching soldier, who stepped over
her each time he passed, she impatiently lifted the lid. The four
helmets in the chest were of some pliant, glassy material resembling
cellophane. They belted in at the waist and after holding one up for
Nick's inspection, Jellia put them back and returned the chest to its
place.

"Now _which_ leg of _which_ table?" pondered the little Maid in
Waiting, her mind turning to the altitude pills.

"Oh, what does it matter?" grinned the Tin Woodman as Jellia crawled
under the navigator's table and began tapping its legs one after the
other. "You'll soon be on solid earth and won't need altitude pills."
Nick had made up his mind to bring the Oztober down to a landing
wherever they happened to be. But Jellia scarcely heard him for at
that moment she had discovered a small hook on one of the front legs of
the table. Pulling it down, she disclosed a tall, triangular bottle in
the hollow center. The pills were triangular too, and of every color in
the rainbow.

"Take one after each mile," read Jellia, uncorking the bottle and
taking a good sniff. The pills smelled as good as they looked and she
was about to sample one, when the Soldier with Green Whiskers gave a
hoarse scream and such a leap that his head hit the ceiling.

"_Now_ what's the matter?" demanded Nick Chopper, turning around
stiffly, while Jellia hastily corked the bottle, shoved it back into
the tableleg and crawled into the aisle.

"NICK!" shrieked poor Jellia. "What is it? What are they? Oh, Ozma! Oh,
Wizard! Oh, help! HELP!"

And well might Jellia scream, for swarming round the tail of the
Oztober came a perfect horde of iridescent monsters. In shape each
resembled an octopus, but instead of arms, they had long, horny spikes
and spines. Pressing close to the plane they ogled at the shivering
passengers as if they were fish in some strange aquarium. Then,
evidently angered at what they saw, they began hurling and banging
themselves against the sides of the Oztober till it sounded like
the rattle of machine guns. At this juncture, I am sorry to report,
Wantowin Battles, after sounding a shrill retreat on the bugle attached
to his belt, rushed into the dressing room and wrapped himself in the
shower curtain.

Nick Chopper, who already loved the Wizard's ship as if it were his
own, shuddered as each spike struck the shining metal. Then, deciding
that flight was the better part of valor, he hastily changed course,
zooming up and up, faster and faster and FASTER! For perhaps a thousand
feet the goggle-eyed monsters pursued them, but at last, the air grew
too thin and rare for the spikers and one by one they fell away. Their
horrid squeals and screeches still came faintly to the three voyagers,
and Jellia ran quickly to the back window to stare down after them.

"Why, I never knew there were wild animals in the air," stuttered
Jellia, blinking her eyes rapidly.

"Now, I wouldn't exactly call them wild animals," said Nick
argumentatively, twisting his neck from side to side to be sure he was
not rusting.

"Well, they certainly weren't birds!" declared Jellia indignantly. "And
how did they fly without wings? Come on out, Soldier, they're gone."

"Ah, so we have won?" Jauntily the Soldier stepped out of the dressing
room and resumed his marching. "Give me credit for sounding the
retreat, comrades," he observed cheerfully. Jellia sniffed, and Nick
Chopper said nothing.

"What are we going to do now?" inquired the little Oz Maid, going over
to stand by the wheel. "How can we ever fly down with those awful
creatures below?"

"We'll just travel horizontally till we are out of their area," Nick
told her, complacently. "But for a while, anyway, we'll go up. After
all, one has to go up to come down, you know. And when we do come
down--" Nick gave a satisfied little nod, "it will be in a safe spot
and far from those spiky airimals."

"So that's what they are! But how did you know?" Jellia looked
admiringly at the Tin Woodman.

"Oh, it just came to me," admitted Nick, with a modest cough. "Beasts
of the air must have names, I suppose. Make a note of those monsters,
will you Wantowin?"

"I'm writing them up in my little green book now," mumbled the Soldier,
who was, in fact, scribbling away hastily as he tramped up and down.
"I've made a sketch of one, too."

"Good!--although I didn't suppose you'd looked at them long enough
for that!" said Nick, a bit sarcastically. He glanced hastily at the
page the soldier held before his nose. Then, deciding they had flown
high enough, he pointed the Oztober toward the east and after an hour's
leisurely flying, again began a slow and cautious descent.

"I do wonder where we'll land?" mused Jellia, trying to pierce with her
bright eyes the bank of fog that lay beneath.

"Somewhere in the Quadling Country, I should judge," answered Nick,
twirling the wheel deftly to the right. "And when we do--" At that
instant, the Soldier with Green Whiskers let out another panicky
squawk.

"Climb! Climb!" he panted, running up and down the aisle so fast he
almost ran himself down on the about-faces. "We're ambushed, comrades!
Fire in the fog! Land on the stern!"

"Oh, tin cups and canyons!" rasped Nick Chopper, losing his temper at
last. "If this keeps up, how are we ever to get down? Hammer and tong
it! Something's always getting in the way. WILL you stop that silly
marching?" he yelled, snatching at the Soldier's sleeve as he raced by.

"HALT!" quavered Wantowin. Instantly obeying his own command, he stood
trembling beside the navigator's table as Nick peered desperately down
through the fog.




CHAPTER 6

Strut of the Strat


"What is it, Hippenscop?" Strutoovious the Seventh looked up
impatiently as his first and fastest messenger came to a panting halt
under the Imperial Canopy. Instead of answering, Hippenscop, his
chest heaving and his eyes bulging, made a wordless gesture over his
shoulder. Then, catching his foot in the royal boot-scraper, he fell
violently up the steps of the dais. This was not unusual, for anyone
who falls in Stratovania, falls up instead of down. Rather relieved to
find himself before the throne at last, Hippenscop scrambled to his
feet. Sucking in his breath he announced hoarsely:

"I beg to report a strange and sonorbious monster falling through the
fog over Half Moon Lake."

"Are you sure it is not a Zoomer?" Throwing down the morning star which
he had been reading, Strutoovious stared coldly at the messenger.

"Ho, no! Ho, NO!" Hippenscop shook his head positively. "It has wings
and a tail, your Strajesty. Wings, a tail and seven eyes! But HARK!!"
The menacing whirr and sputter following the messenger's speech made
even the Ruler of all the Stratovanians leap off his throne. Striding
rapidly after the terrified servitor, Strut, followed by half the
inhabitants of his irradiant Tip-toposphere, reached the shores of Half
Moon Lake.

"Skydragon!" he announced, after a brief glance at the gleaming shape
drifting down through the fog. "Quick Hippen! Summon the Royal Blowmen!
Back, stand back, you witless woffs! Do you wish to be crushed and
eaten? Yon monster will alight on the North shore any moonite now!" At
Strut's loud warning, half of his subjects took to their heels while
the rest scurried round to the South side of the lake, every head
turned up toward the mysterious dragon.

Only, of course, it was not a dragon. It was the silver-bodied
Oztober--inside of which the agitation was almost as great as the alarm
of the Airlanders below.

"How long have we? How long'll it be before we land?" gulped Jellia.
Remembering the Wizard's instructions, she jerked out the box of air
helmets and next made a dive under the navigator's table. "Here, take
one--two--three. Oh, how many shall we take?" groaned the little Oz
Maid, holding up the bottle of altitude pills. "'One, after each mile
up,' but how many miles have we come?"

"One hundred and one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven feet!"
mumbled the Soldier with Green Whiskers, reading the figures from a
shining metal hypsometer clamped to the navigator's table. "All we have
to do is figure how many feet in a mile."

"Fifty-two hundred and some," puffed Nick, working away desperately
at his wheel and buttons to bring the Oztober down without crashing.
"Oh, take twenty!" he directed sharply, as Jellia and the Soldier stood
regarding him with open mouths. It was no time, as Jellia later told
Ozma, to be doing long divisions. With trembling fingers she counted
out twenty pills for the Soldier with Green Whiskers. Then, popping
twenty into her own mouth and crunching them desperately between her
teeth, she handed the bottle to Nick Chopper.

"No, No! None for me!" The Tin Woodman waved the bottle impatiently
aside. "High altitude won't injure my metal, but keep this oil can
handy, Jellia, and whatever happens, don't let me rust!" Choking on
the pills which were dry and rather bitter, Jellia nodded earnestly.
Tucking the oil can into the little bag that hung from her wrist, she
began nervously dragging on her air helmet. Wantowin Battles already
had adjusted his, and swallowed his pills. Now, peering out one of the
round windows, he trembled so violently all his weapons rattled and
clanked to the dismal tune of his fright.

"Th--thousands of them!" quavered the Soldier. "What kind of place is
this, anyway! It's so bright it hurts my eyes. Oh, I just know there'll
be fighting! Look, I'd far better stay in the cabin, as someone must
guard the plane!"

"But not YOU!" Nick Chopper spoke with great firmness. Then, spinning
the wheel rapidly and gauging to a nicety the distance between the ship
and the sparkling airosphere, he touched the "down" and "stop" buttons
simultaneously. Coasting down the last little hill of wind, the Oztober
came to a gentle and complete stop on the shore of a rainbow-hued body
of water.

"Now, now! Take your time," cautioned the Tin Woodman, as Jellia
started impulsively toward the door. Pulling off one of the cushion
covers Nick began polishing himself vigorously. As the discoverer of
this new and astonishing airland, he wished to make a good impression.
From what he had seen, it was a country well worth claiming for Ozma
of Oz. "Here, let me go first," he said, tossing aside the cushion
cover. "Keep close to me, Jellia, and Soldier--under no circumstances
are you to retreat unless I give the signal. Great Tinhoppers, what was
_that_?" A long wail rather like the squall of a cat suddenly had rent
the quiet air of the cabin.

"Stowaway!" cried Jellia, as another unmistakable meough followed the
first. "Sounds like Dorothy's cat." But it was not Eureka that Jellia
pulled from behind the second seat cushion. It was a small, black
kit-bag. The green eyes turned off and on like electric lights, and the
tail curved over the back to form a handle. Round its neck hung a green
placard:

    "_This Kit-Bag of Magic to be used
      Only in cases of extreme emergency.
    To open pull the tail.--WIZ._"

"Well, Geewhiz--is this an emergency?" Jellia held the bag out,
nervously.

"Er--YES!" declared Nick Chopper after a second glance out of the
window. "Bring it along! And remember--you have nothing to fear! I, the
Emperor of all the Winkies, am with you. With kind words and courteous
gestures we will win the friendship and allegiance of these strange
airlanders for Ozma of Oz."

Jellia knew Nick's red plush heart, given him by the Wizard, was the
kindest in all Oz. Nevertheless she took a firmer hold on the kit
bag, and only after assuring herself that Wantowin had his saber and
blunder-buss did she follow the Tin Woodman down the Oztober's ladder.

There was a complete and astonished silence as the three Ozians stepped
from the plane. And it must be confessed, Jellia and the Soldier in
their transparent helmets, and the Tin Woodman without a helmet,
were strange enough to startle any airbody. So it's no wonder the
Stratovanians were as amazed at the appearance of the travellers, as
the travellers were amazed at the Stratovanians. Separated only by
the waters of Half Moon Lake, they confronted each other with growing
alarm. Strut, who had expected this dragon to roar, spurt flames and
then rush forward to attack them, hardly knew what to do when these
three curious beings stepped from the monster's interior. Noting with
alarm that his Blowmen had not yet arrived, he determined to hold the
invaders in conversation, if possible.

So, with his head and chest high, and walking with the queer, strutting
gait that characterized all of the dwellers in Stratovania, he advanced
slowly around the edge of Half Moon Lake. A few paces behind strutted
the rest of his retainers. Just as slowly, Nick Chopper and his two
companions advanced to meet them.

The Airlanders were a head taller than even the Tin Woodman. Their hair
grew straight up on end, sparkling and crackling with electricity in
a really terrifying manner. Their eyes were star shaped and shaded by
long, silver lashes, the noses and mouths were straight and firm, the
foreheads transparent. Some shone as from a hidden sun, while across
the brows of others tiny black clouds chased one another in rapid
succession. Watching their foreheads would be a good way, decided
Jellia Jam, to find out whether they were pleased or angry. Strut
and his subjects wore belted tunics of some iridescent, rainbow-hued
material, and silver sandals laced to the knee.

From the ears of the men hung huge, crescent pendants, while from those
of the women, star earrings danced and dangled. Each Stratovanian
carried a tall staff, tipped with wings. Beyond, Jellia saw a country
of such dazzling beauty--she was almost afraid to breathe lest it
vanish before her eyes. The trees were tall and numerous, with
gleaming, prism-shaped trunks and a mass of cloud-like foliage. Some
bore fruit that actually seemed to be illuminated--oranges, pears,
and peaches glowing like decorated electric light bulbs! Moon and
star flowers grew in great profusion, and in the distance, caves and
grottoes of purest crystal scintillated in the high noon sun. So far
as Jellia could see, there were no houses or castles, but there were
hundreds of gay canopies held up by crystal poles. Jellia was just
standing on tip-toe to glimpse the furnishings of the nearest Canopy
when Nick Chopper, feeling the time had come to speak, raised his tin
arm and called out imperiously:

"I, Emperor of the East and the Winkies, hereby claim this new and
beautiful airosphere for Ozma of Oz, and bid you, its illustrious
inhabitants, pledge to her your allegiance! At the same time, I bestow
upon all of you Upper Airians, free citizenship in the glorious Land of
Oz!"

At this bold speech Strut stopped and stood as if rooted to the spot.
Not only was he dumbfounded to discover he could understand the
language of these curious beings, but if what he heard were correct,
they actually were claiming his Kingdom for their own.

"Well, how was that?" whispered Nick, looking down sideways at Jellia.

"Terrible! Terrible!" moaned the little Oz Maid. "Oh, my! We'd better
look out!" Catching hold of Wantowin's hand, for he already showed
signs of retreating, she looked anxiously at the approaching Airman.
Black clouds were simply racing across his imperial brow; his eyes
flashed red and blue lights and his hair positively crackled with
indignation and fury.

"Oh, my--I do hope you are feeling well?" ventured Jellia, as Strut
took an enormous stride toward them. "If you have a headache or
anything, we could easily come back tomorrow."

"Stand where you are!" sneered Strut. Looking over his shoulder he
made sure his twenty, tall Blowmen had arrived and were pushing their
way through the crowd. "Stand where you are or I'll have you blown to
atoms!"

"Now, now, let us not come to blows!" begged Nick Chopper. "We have
much to learn from you and you from us, and I assure you we have come
in the spirit of highest friendship!"

"Humph! So that's what it is--a friend ship! Looks like a dragon to
me!" Folding his arms, Strut scowled past the three travellers to where
the Oztober rested like some giant butterfly on the shore of Half Moon
Lake. Then, making a secret signal to the Blowmen who had lined up
before him, he shouted fiercely, "I am Strut of the Strat and Supreme
Ruler of all the Upper Areas. In daring to claim Stratovania for your
foolish countrywoman, you indeed aim high and will go, I promise you,
still higher! Three blasts and a toot, men!" As Strut issued this cruel
command, his twenty, stern-looking warriors lifted their curved horns
and puffed out their cheeks for a tremendous blow.

Jellia Jam, feeling that if they ever needed help it was right here and
now, frantically sought with her one free hand to open the Wizard's
Kit-Bag. As she fumbled with the curved handle, Strut raised his long
arm.

"Wait!" he cried tensely. "Not yet!" Lowering their horns and exhaling
their breaths in loud whistles, the Blowmen stared at him in surprise.
Strut had been examining the strangers from Oz more attentively. Now
he strode over to Jellia, jerked off her helmet and ran his hand
slowly over her smooth brown hair. Jellia, expecting to faint or
expire without the helmet, let out a piteous groan. But the altitude
pills were evidently powerful enough to protect her, and feeling no
ill effects, she glanced up timidly at the towering Stratovanian. Dark
clouds no longer flitted across his brow. Indeed, he looked almost
pleasant. "Ve-ry pret-ty!" he mused, stroking Jellia's hair softly.
"Not wiry or stand-uppish like ours. Hippenscop! Summon her Majesty
the Queen. She'll be delighted with this beautiful little creature!
But--it is my intention to blow away these other insolent invaders from
Oz--keeping only this smooth-haired lassie for our Starina."

"Oh, No! Oh, NO!" begged Jellia, pulling back with all her strength.

"Stop! You can't have Jellia," yelled Nick Chopper, flinging out his
arms.

"Ready--aim--fire!" quavered the Soldier with Green Whiskers. And
pointing his ancient gun at Strut, he valiantly pulled the trigger. But
Wantowin's aim was very bad. The twenty marbles with which the gun was
loaded, zipped harmlessly past the Airman's ears, stinging quite a few
of his subjects and frightening at least fifty into full flight. Strut
himself was not impressed. Giving Nick a push that sent him sprawling,
and the Soldier a shove, he drew Jellia firmly away from her friends.

Terrified as she was, the little Oz Maid could not help a small thrill
of satisfaction to have been chosen by a monarch as High and Mighty as
Strut of the Strat, to be Starina to him and his Queen.

"As for you two," said Strut to Nick and the Soldier, "blowing up is
quite painless, I assure you, and if you ever do come down you'll
doubtless have many interesting things to tell."

The Blowmen placed a guard around Nick and the Soldier, and stepped
back to their posts. Nick Chopper and Wantowin, stunned by the
swiftness of events, stared sadly at their little Jellia as the
Blowmen for a second time raised their horns. But Strut, intent on his
Warriors, had dropped Jellia's hand. Quick as a flash she pulled the
kit-bag's tail and pulled out the first object her fingers closed on.
It was a small green trumpet. Without stopping to think or reason,
Jellia placed it to her lips and blew three frantic toots.

Instantly a light green vapor flowed from the mouth of the horn,
spreading like a fast-moving cloud over the entire assemblage--a light
green vapor accompanied by three musical notes.




CHAPTER 7

A Most Reluctant Starina


As the last note died away in a sweet, reluctant echo, Strut's Blowmen
threw down their horns. With wild shouts and cheers they began to
embrace as if each were the other's long lost brother. The behavior of
the rest of the Stratovanians was equally puzzling. They sang, they
whistled, they laughed and stamped their feet from sheer gaiety. Strut,
hurrying over to Nick Chopper, shook him heartily by the hand.

"Say, Hay-Hurray! How ARE you?" he demanded exuberantly. "How are you
and all of your aunts, uncles and infant nieces?"

"Wha--what's that?" sputtered Nick Chopper completely taken aback
by this sudden show of friendliness. Kabebe the Queen, tears of joy
streaming down her moon-shaped face, seized the hands of the Soldier
with Green Whiskers and was dancing him 'round and 'round. Unnoticed
in the general hubbub and hilarity, Jellia managed to steal another
glance at the green trumpet. Printed in white letters on the handle was
this surprising sentence: "_This trumpet contains cheer gas._" Cheer
Gas! With a tremulous sigh, for the last few moments had been a great
strain, Jellia slipped the Wizard's instrument back into the kit bag
and zipped it shut. Strangely enough the gas had not affected any of
the people from Oz. In fact Jellia had never felt less like cheering in
her whole life.

"This way! Ray, Ray, hur_ray_!" shouted Strut, who now had Nick by one
arm and the Soldier by the other. "Quickly! Go and prepare the Guest
Canopies, Queen Kabebe! These travellers are doubtless weary, and need
rest and refreshment. Have you any preference as to canopies?" he
inquired, leaning down to look in Nick Chopper's face.

"Do you have any _tin_ canopies?" asked Nick hoarsely. He was still
dazed by Strut's unaccountable change of manner. "I always feel safer
under a tin roof. It is such a beautiful and dependable metal."

"Tin? Oh, Ha-Ha-HA!" Strut blinked his star eyes rapidly. "I'm afraid
we have no tin, but any other kind, my dear--"

"Nick Chopper, Tin Woodman of Oz," put in Jellia, who felt it was high
time they were properly introduced. "And there--" She hastily indicated
the Soldier with Green Whiskers--"There is Wantowin Battles, the Grand
Army of Oz!" At Jellia's introduction, Wantowin dropped Strut's arm to
shake hands.

"And who are you, my lively little Skylark?" he questioned.

"Oh, I'm just Jellia Jam, Ozma's Chief Maid in Waiting," Jellia said as
she trotted uneasily along at his side. The rest of the Stratovanians,
still cheering and singing, but in a more subdued way, came streaming
after them. Rather anxiously Jellia wondered how long the effects of
the cheer gas would last, and how soon Strut would remember about
blowing Nick and the Soldier away again. It seemed unlikely that she
would have another chance to open the kit bag without detection. The
Queen, who had not been as cheered by the gas as the others, seemed
somewhat unfriendly as she walked along behind her Royal Husband. Every
few minutes, in fact, she would lean forward and give Jellia a spiteful
pinch. Jellia bore this rude treatment with extreme patience, making
no complaint or out-cry and merely walking a little faster to keep
out of the creature's way. Jellia wanted to see all she could of this
wonderful, sparkling airland so she could tell Ozma and Dorothy all
about it when she returned to Oz.

The Soldier with Green Whiskers had fallen back to a place beside Queen
Kabebe and was gazing about him with contemptuous snorts. Any country
that was not green like the land surrounding the Emerald City, held no
interest for him. Noticing that Jellia was faring quite well without
her helmet, and finding his rather stuffy, he took it off and slung it
over one shoulder. As he did so he caught the Queen in the very act
of pinching Jellia. Disgusted by such conduct, he sternly took her
arm, and each time Kabebe pinched Jellia, the Soldier would slap her
fingers. After the fifth slap the Queen peered at him with astonished
admiration, for on this whole Tip-toposphere there was no man bold
enough to strike a member of the reigning family. Soon, Kabebe was so
fascinated by Wantowin's flowing green whiskers she forgot all about
pinching Jellia. By this time the strange and still faintly cheering
procession had reached Strut's Royal Canopy. Waving away his giggling
Blowmen, Strut lifted Jellia to one of the splendid Star Thrones.

To Kabebe King Strut spoke impatiently. "Don't you remember you were to
see about the Guest Canopies?" Kabebe dared not object but looked quite
displeased. "Just tell Bittsywittle to bring us a tray of air-ades and
a wind pudding," ordered Strut, giving the Queen a jovial shove to help
her on her way. "You'd like an air-ade wouldn't you, little lady?"
Poor Jellia shook her head no and then quickly changed it to yes. The
furnishings of the Royal Pavilion were so rich and dazzling and the
Star Throne so high and grand that she felt completely bewildered. As
Kabebe shuffled away, Jellia smiled nervously at Nick and the Soldier.
At Strut's invitation they had seated themselves cross legged on bright
blue air cushions, and looked as uncomfortable as they felt.

"Well, what do you think of Stratovania by now?" inquired Strut,
settling back complacently. "I believe you will all enjoy high life as
much as we do, once you are used to it."

Nick Chopper was on the point of saying they had no intention of
getting used to it, or of staying one single moment longer than was
positively necessary, when he caught Jellia's worried expression and
muttered instead. "Beautiful--very beautiful."

"But where are the houses?" asked the Soldier with Green Whiskers,
bluntly. "These tent tops are all right for a war, or for field sports,
but I should think you'd find them rather chilly for all year 'round
living."

"Stratovania," explained Strut as he crossed his long legs, "is
never chilly. It is surrounded by a rim of warm air that keeps the
temperature just as you find it today. No wind, no rain, no storms of
any kind," he concluded, proudly.

"And it's all so bright and shiny," sighed Jellia Jam, blinking down
at the floor of the pavilion which was an inlay of sparkling glass,
and then off to the countless bright canopies that dotted the airscape
beyond. The surface of Strut's curious Skyland was of gleaming crystal,
sometimes smooth as ice, sometimes rough and rocky, but always flashing
with the brilliance of diamonds. "Everything sparkles so," finished
Jellia, rather wishing she had brought her dark glasses.

"That's because Stratovania is formed of solid air," smiled Strut,
tapping one of the iridescent posts that supported the silken canopy
over their heads. "And I am its High and Mighty Sovereign, ruler of the
Spikers who inhabit the strata below, and of the Zoomers who inhabit
the strata above, and of all the other spheres and half-spheres in
this particular area. Strut of the Strat! Consider THAT, Little One,
and be proud that you have been chosen to be our Starina!"

"But Jellia can't stay here!" cried the Soldier with Green Whiskers,
springing indignantly to his feet. "Jellia's--"

"Tut! Tut! Now do not excite yourself! Here comes Bittsywittle and
we'll all have a glass of liquid air." As Strut leaned forward to speak
to his small, electric-haired page, Jellia shook her head sharply at
Nick and the Soldier, for both seemed on the point of dragging her off
the throne.

"Wait!" Jellia formed the word soundlessly, and with puzzled frowns her
two friends sank back on their air cushions, accepting rather glumly
the sparkling goblets of air-ade from the light-footed servitor. With
the air-ade Bittsywittle passed heaping saucers of wind pudding, a
fluffy, cloud-like confection that made Jellia's mouth positively water.

"You will find the diet here light, but nourishing," Strut informed
them blandly. "Our atmosphere is so rare and exhilarating, we need
little but sun and star light to keep us going. But now, friends, I
propose a toast to Jellia, our new Starina!" As Nick and Wantowin
rose unwillingly to their feet, for the whole affair struck them as
perfectly preposterous, Strut lifted his glass and downed his air-ade.
Then the Soldier rather sulkily drank his. Nick, who never partook
of food or drink of any kind, set his goblet on a small tabouret and
stared sadly at Jellia Jam. The Tin Woodman feared she was seriously
considering Strut's proposal. Jellia surmised what Nick was thinking,
but as there was no way of explaining that she was just trying to gain
time till they could find some way to escape, she smiled wanly back at
him and swallowed her own air-ade.

Suddenly Jellia felt herself rising into the air. Before she could
utter a sound, her head was pressed tightly against the top of the
canopy. Then, dizzily, she began to float 'round and 'round like a
pretty balloon just let off its string.

"Ho, Ho!" roared Strut. "Our air-ade has made you light-headed, m'lass!
But wait--I'll fetch you down!" He tapped the winged staff he held in
his right hand sharply on the floor. Instantly it spread its wings,
carrying him up beside Jellia. Grasping her hand he drew her down to
the throne.

"There," he chuckled, handing her a heavy glass globe to hold, "that
will weigh you down!" Reflecting that one of these winged sticks might
be a handy thing to have, Jellia clutched the glass globe. Still weak
and giddy from her flight, she could not bring herself to touch the
wind pudding Bittsywittle had placed on the arm of the throne. The
Soldier with Green Whiskers, on account of his heavy weapons and boots,
had not gone so high as Jellia, but even he, instead of sitting on his
air cushion, was now seated on nothing--three feet above Nick Chopper's
head. He looked extremely unhappy, as indeed he was.

"Don't worry," grinned Strut, who seemed highly amused by the whole
affair, "you'll come down presently." He tapped his winged staff on the
head as he spoke, and the staff immediately folded its wings. "Tell
me," he urged, turning to Nick Chopper who was looking anxiously from
the Soldier to Jellia. "Do you come from below or be-high?"

"Be-oth," answered the Tin Woodman, too confused by this time to know
what he was saying. "Taking off from the Emerald City of Oz, we first
flew up, then over, then up and next down!"

"Hmm--mmmn, OZ?" Two very black clouds floated across Strut's
transparent brow. "I seem to remember your mentioning Oz before! I seem
to remember--" Strut's voice was no longer pleasant, and watching his
brow growing blacker and blacker, Jellia frantically sought to open the
Wizard's kit bag. Unless she could release some more of the cheer gas,
almost anything might happen.

Out of the third point of his left star eye, Strut saw what she was
doing. "Don't fidget, my dear," he snapped crossly. "It is unbecoming
for our new Starina of Stratovania to fidget, or to unpack her own bag.
Here--" Taking the kit bag from her he tossed it carelessly beneath his
throne. Jellia's heart sank. She hoped Nick would say no more about
claiming Stratovania for Ozma. But the Tin Woodman, already launched
upon a glowing description of their famous Fairy Land, was working up
to that very point.

"One hundred and one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven feet below
this airosphere," began Nick, taking a long breath, "lies the great,
grand and incomparable Fairyland of Oz. Oblong in shape, it is divided
into four triangular Kingdoms. The Northern and Purple Land of the
Gillikens is ruled by Jo King; the Blue, Western Land of the Munchkins,
by his Majesty King Cheeriobed; the Eastern, Yellow Land of the Winkies
is governed by myself; the Southern Red Land of the Quadlings, by
Glinda the Good Sorceress.

"But all of us are subject to the benign rule of Ozma, the young Fairy
Ruler of the whole Kingdom. Her capitol, the Emerald City, in the exact
center of Oz, is one of the most beautiful cities out of the world!
Surrounding Oz and protecting it from invasions is a deadly desert, and
in Ozma's possession are more jewels and treasure than you doubtless
have seen in the whole of your air existence."

"Humph!" growled Strut, looking fiercer than ever. But paying no
heed to the ominous storm clouds forming on his brow, Nick loftily
proceeded. "Not only is Ozma possessed of more jewels than any other
sovereign known, but in her castle are magic appliances that make her
the most powerful of rulers. For instance, Ozma has a magic belt
with which she can transport anyone anywhere. On her wall hangs a
magic picture in which she can see what is happening to her friends
or foes--right while it is happening. In her safe is a magic fan to
blow away her enemies, and so many other strange instruments of magic,
I have not time to describe them. Among her advisors is the famous
Wizard of Oz, who spends all his time studying magic and perfecting
new inventions. The Ozoplane in which we made this perilous flight is
his latest masterpiece. And now that you know a bit more of Ozma and
her famous country, I am sure you will be delighted to become a part
of our happy realm and acknowledge Ozma as the Supreme Sovereign of
Stratovania."

"What?" screamed Strut, bounding off his throne and furiously
confronting the Tin Woodman. "How DARE you suggest such a thing? This
is the second time you have done so! Why should I, Strut of the Strat,
acknowledge this miserable earthlander as my supreme anything? I am a
thousand times richer and more important than any Belowlander below.
Oz! OZ! Indeed!"

As Nick backed off in some alarm, Strut shook his long staff over the
Tin Woodman's head. "Why, you can't even pronounce the name of your
own country!" he sneered. "It is not Oz, as you say it, but OHS--the
zone of Ohs, to be more correct. And if Ohs is in the zone of Ohs it is
Ozone, which means AIR--and that makes it belong to ME! So I, Strut of
the Strat, hereby do claim OZONIA for myself and my people, and you, my
fine Mr. Funnel Top, shall take me there!"




CHAPTER 8

Strut of the Strat Sets Off for Oz


"Don't you do it! Don't you do it!" Plumping down on his air cushion,
for the effects of the air-ade had worn off at last, the Soldier with
Green Whiskers wildly sounded retreat on his green bugle. Jellia,
knowing he would run as fast as he could and perhaps wreck the Ozoplane
before she and Nick could reach it, jumped off her throne and seized
him by the coat tails. As she did so, Strut gave the glass gong beside
him a resounding whack. Before any of the three travellers could take
another step, the twenty Blowmen tramped back into the Royal Pavilion.
The cheer engendered by the cheer gas had entirely evaporated by now,
and they looked very grim indeed. At a signal from Strut, one seized
Nick, a second the Soldier. A third was taking hold of Jellia, when
Strut sternly waved him aside.

"No No! Not that one! She is our new Starina!" he told the Blowman
roughly. "Now you are to stay right here, Jellia, my dear, and help
rule over Stratovania while I descend to Ohs and take possession of
that rich and prosperous country. And, sooner than soon, I will return,
bringing you the magic treasure and jewels and the crown and scepter of
this Ohsma!"

"Oh, but you mustn't!" wailed Jellia, clasping her hands desperately.
"Ozma is a _real_ Princess and much more beautiful than I!"

"In that case, I shall bring Ohsma back and make her a Starina also!"
promised Strut.

"Now Hippenscop," he directed, shaking his finger at the odd-looking
page, "you and Junnenrump are to obey Jellia in everything. I'll leave
three Blowmen here to protect our Starina. The others, and all of my
able-bodied fighters, shall fly with me to Ohs."

"The Ozoplane holds only four!" cried Jellia, looking desperately over
at Nick who was struggling angrily to free himself from the Blowmen.
But they had his arms pinioned behind his back, and the poor Tin
Woodman was unable to help himself.

"Oh, that's all right!" answered Strut, "I and this Tin Emperor will
ride in the Friend-ship, and the others will follow on their flying
sticks and soon I will return with all the treasures of Ohs!" As the
Blowmen started away, shoving Nick and the Soldier ahead of them,
Jellia felt so frightened and alone that she burst into tears.

"Oh, please, please--couldn't you leave the Soldier to keep me
company?" she sobbed, wiping her streaming eyes on her sash.

"Of course, if you wish!" Motioning to the Blowmen, they picked up
Wantowin as if he had been a sack of potatoes, and tossed him roughly
back into the Royal Pavilion. He landed with a clatter at Jellia's feet.

"But see here! I am not sure I can find the way back to Oz!" protested
Nick Chopper as Strut fell into step at his side. "I happened upon this
airosphere by the merest chance, and have no idea in which direction Oz
now lies."

"Just the same--I think you will take me there!" Strut grinned
wickedly, tapping Nick on the shoulder with his staff. He already had
sent Junnenrump to summon the army, and, glancing over his shoulder,
Nick saw a thousand young airmen strutting along behind them. As they
came to the shores of Half Moon Lake, Hippenscop came panting and
gasping into view.

"Her Skyness the new Starina, bade me give you this," he puffed,
handing the Tin Woodman the small oil can the Wizard had given him at
the party. Nick had forgotten all about his oil can and without it he
was likely to rust and become perfectly helpless. Taking it thankfully
from the messenger, he hung it on a hook beneath his arm and headed
reluctantly for the Oztober. Nick had no intention of flying Strut to
the Emerald City. Even if he had to wreck the plane, he would find some
way to keep the greedy airman and his legions from conquering Oz. Then
he would return and rescue Jellia and the soldier.

But, without a word to Strut, for argument at this point would have
been useless, he mounted the ladder, walked through the cozy cabin and
seated himself in the pilot's chair. Strut paused on the top rung of
the ladder before he entered.

"Follow us closely, men," he commanded gruffly, "no matter how far
or fast we fly." Strut's young warriors raised their flying staffs
to show that they understood, and with a few final directions, the
Stratovanian stepped over the sill, slammed the door of the Oztober
and walked rapidly forward, examining everything with lively interest.

"So this dragon-body really flys?" he said, bending curiously over the
navigator's table. "Ho, what's this? I thought you told me you had
no way of finding the route back?" Nick Chopper, much more surprised
than Strut, picked up the tidy map that lay on top of the buttons.
It certainly had not been there when he left the plane, but here it
was now, showing the complete course they had taken since leaving the
Emerald City. Concluding this was some of the Wizard's magic, Nick
examined the map attentively. Each turn up or down, each mile east or
west, was charted accurately.

"All you have to do is follow this in reverse," exclaimed Strut.
Unaccustomed as he was to flying except by staff, he was nevertheless
sharp enough to realize the value of a good map when he saw one. "And
remember now--no tricks!" he warned, sternly. "Land me safely in Ohs
and you will be suitably rewarded. But land me anywhere else and you
will be completely obliterated!"

Nick said nothing. Weary of Strut's threats and boasts, the Woodman
touched the button to inflate the Oztober's balloon, and the "up,"
"south" and "fast" buttons. In the whirr and splutter of their
take-off, the Airlander's further remarks and directions were
completely drowned out.




CHAPTER 9

Jellia in a Frightful Jam


For a long time after the departure of the Tin Woodman and of Strut
and his legions, Jellia sat forlornly on the Star Throne, trying to
stem the tears that coursed slowly down her cheeks. To be stranded on
this high and dangerous airosphere was bad enough, but the thought of
Strut flying off to destroy Ozma and steal all her treasures was more
frightening still.

"What on airth shall we do?" questioned Jellia with a rueful smile, of
the Soldier with Green Whiskers who was tramping morosely up and down
the pavilion. Halting in his march, Wantowin shook his head dubiously.

"That I cannot say!" he murmured, taking off his cap and staring
gloomily inside. "I have no standing in this country at all! But you,
Jellia, are a Starina. Therefore you must decide what is to be done.
And whatever your Majesty's orders may be, I will carry them out to the
letter. To the _letter_!" declared Wantowin, standing up very straight
and tall.

"Oh, bother 'my Majesty!'" scolded Jellia. "You know perfectly well I
didn't _ask_ to be a Starina of this terrible place!"

"It is not what you want but what you are, that counts!" insisted the
Soldier, stubbornly. "And there's no getting round it, Jellia, you
_are_ a Starina! So while you are deciding what is to be done, I'll
just do a bit of reconnoitering. It might be well to know the lay of
the air!"

"Wait!" cried Jellia as Wantowin started smartly down the steps.
"Whatever you do, Wanny--don't run!" she implored earnestly. "You
might easily run off the edge and then where'd you be? So do please be
careful, and if anything frightens you run straight back here! Do you
promise?"

"Nothing ever frightens me!" said the Soldier in an offended voice.
Marching sternly down the steps he was off at a double-quick, without
even a glance over his shoulder. Feeling more alone than ever, Jellia
sighed and folded her hands in her lap. But Wantowin's words, foolish
as they were, had done her good. After all she was a Starina, for
the time being anyway. So, straightening her crown, and drying her
tears, Jellia tried to think how she should act under such bewildering
circumstances. How would Ozma act, for instance, if she were sitting
on the throne of this singular airtry? Even thinking of the gentle and
dignified little Girl Ruler of Oz, steadied Jellia. Holding her head
very high, she stepped down from the dais and began pacing slowly
up and down the pavilion, switching her green skirts in such a regal
manner that the two messengers who had returned quietly to their posts,
stared at her with new interest and admiration.

"Is there anything we might bring your Strajesty?" asked Junnenrump,
bowing from the waist and clicking his heels smartly together. At his
question Jellia paused and eyed the two, speculatively.

"Why, yes," she decided after a moment's thought. "You, Junnenrump, may
send some one to amuse me, and you, Hippenscop, may bring me two of
those winged staffs. It is neither safe nor proper for a Starina and
her Army to be without them!"

"But, your Skyness!" Hippenscop leaped into the air and spun round
and round in an agony of embarrassment. "There are no extra staffs!"
he blurted, finally coming to a stop before her. The little fellow
looked so distressed, Jellia was on the point of letting him off. Then,
remembering just in time that she was bound to be obeyed, she raised
her arm.

"Go!" she commanded haughtily. "And do not return without two winged
staffs!" Junnenrump already had started, and at Jellia's stern command
Hippenscop backed dejectedly down the steps, his eyes bulging with
dismay and consternation.

"If Wanny and I had flying sticks, we'd at least be as well off as
the rest of these Airlanders," reasoned Jellia, resuming her walk.
"But what funny names," she mused, as the messengers disappeared in
two different directions and at two different speeds. "They make me
think of--" here Jellia took a little run and jump, following it with
a skip and a hop. "I suppose" she continued, talking conversationally
to herself, "that is what their names really mean, everything is so
mixed up here." Regaining her throne in one long slide, Jellia brought
up with a slight start. This, she decided, was no way for a Starina
to act. Smoothing down her dress, she walked sedately to Strut's
throne and reached underneath. The real reason she had got rid of the
messengers, of course, was so she could recover the kit-bag and have a
chance to examine its contents without being observed. The cheer gas
had saved them on one occasion, and perhaps there was magic powerful
enough to enable her and the Soldier to escape from the airosphere
before Strut returned. The bag was still there and snatching it up
in her arms, Jellia climbed back on the throne. But just as she was
about to zip it open, Junnenrump bounded up the steps of the pavilion,
dragging a lean old Skylander by the hand.

"His Majesty's Piper!" announced Junnenrump, giving the Piper a shove
forward and seating himself expectantly on the messenger's bench.
Jellia was annoyed to have Junnenrump return so soon. But since she
had sent for someone to amuse her, she could not very well object.
So, resting her chin in her hand she looked curiously at the royal
Piper. The old Skylander was tremendously tall and thin. His tunic was
short and plaited, and under his arms he carried a pair of enormous
bag pipes. Jellia never had cared for bag pipes, but on an airosphere
she supposed wind instruments such as this naturally would be popular.
The Piper, however, did not immediately play on his pipes. Instead he
struck a few light and pleasant chords on the top buttons of his tunic.

    "Shall I do a buck and wing, or a little Skyland fling?
    Shall I sing a little sing, for you, Dear?"

bawled the Piper cheerfully. He looked so funny that Jellia burst out
laughing. Thus encouraged, the Piper proceeded to sing, punctuating his
song with extraordinary leaps and toe tappings.

    "When we Skylanders feel low, we just
      Dance the stratispho;
    Step it high, kick and fly, toss the
      Partner up ski-high. High HO!

"Would you care to try it?" he asked politely, holding out his hand to
Jellia.

"No, No! Not today!" gasped the Oz maid, backing as far as the star
throne would allow. "But I've really enjoyed watching you very much,
and your singing is lovely," she added, generously.

"Ah, but wait until you hear me play," puffed the Piper. Raising his
pipes he blew forth such a hurricane of whistles, squeals and fierce
thunderings that poor Jellia clapped both hands to her ears. "Tell him
to go away," she screamed above the awful din, wildly motioning to
Junnenrump who was tapping his foot in time to the pipes and looking
highly diverted. "Tell him to come back tomorrow." The fierce music
of the bag pipes had brought airlanders running from every direction.
Crowding round the pavilion they waved and bowed to the new Starina.
Realizing she never would have any privacy under the Imperial Canopy,
Jellia slipped off her throne. The messenger had the Piper by the
tunic tails and was easing him gently down the steps. Jellia waited
till they reached the bottom, then, as all the airlanders began to run
after the still furiously pumping piper, Jellia started in the opposite
direction. Surely somewhere, she thought, clutching the kit-bag close
to her, somewhere she could find a quiet corner or cave or clump of
bushes where she could examine the contents of the Wizard's bag without
interruption.

So anxious was Jellia to be by herself, she broke into a run. Failing
to notice a crystal bar stretched across the path, she tripped and fell
violently _up_ a tune tree. Falling down is bad enough, but falling up
is worse still. Jellia not only had barked her shins on the crystal
bar, but had bounced into the air so high she lost her breath and
plunged down so abruptly among the top branches of the tune tree that
she was somewhat scratched and shaken. She knew it must be a tune tree
because plump black notes grew in clusters like cherries between the
leaves. Several, dislodged by her fall, broke into gay little arias and
chords. At any other time Jellia would have been quite interested, but
now she was too agitated and upset to care.

"Such a country--or airtry!" groaned the Oz maid, rubbing her left
ankle and her right knee. "One can't even fall down in their own way!"
Parting the branches the ruffled little girl looked crossly out. It
was quite a long way to the ground, but nevertheless Jellia decided to
climb down. But suddenly it occurred to her that the top of the tune
tree was as good a place as any, to open the kit-bag. Easing herself to
a larger limb, she balanced the bag carefully in her lap and stretched
out her hand to pull the tail. Then a piercing scream and the thump
of a hundred footsteps made her draw it back in a hurry. Parting the
branches of the tree for a second time, she saw Wantowin Battles
running toward her like the wind.

"Help! Help! Save me!" yelled the Soldier with Green Whiskers. And
he had reason to yell for just two leaps behind him panted Kabebe,
waving an enormous crystal rolling-pin. After the Queen pounded the
three big Blowmen, and after the Blowmen came nearly a hundred men,
women, and children. Before Jellia had time even to guess why they were
chasing the Army, Wantowin tripped over the same crystal bar that had
caused her upfall, and landed with a terrific grunt in the branches
beside her, scattering half and quarter-notes in every direction. The
Airlanders stopped short and watched with breathless interest as the
Soldier disappeared into the thick foliage of the tune tree.

"What's the matter? What happened?" whispered Jellia reaching out to
steady the soldier who was bouncing wildly up and down on a nearby limb.

"YOU?" gasped Wantowin, almost losing his balance at the shock of
seeing her. "Oh, Jellia! We must leave at once! At ONCE! As I was
passing the cooking caves, Kabebe rushed out and grabbed me. She has
decided to blow us away most any minute now. She has persuaded the
Airlanders that Strut is lost and never will return. Oh why, WHY, did
we ever fly to this terrible place?"

"Be quiet!" hissed Jellia, frightened almost out of her wits at this
new turn of affairs. "How can I think with you making all that noise?"

"Come down! Come down!" bawled Kabebe. "Come down before I shake you
down!" Grasping the trunk of the tune tree she gave it a playful shake.

Rolling his eyes up, the Soldier glanced desperately at Jellia, and
Jellia, as desperately, glanced back.

"You might as well go down," she whispered resignedly, as the Queen
gave the tree a tremendous shake that nearly dislodged them both.

"Not without you," shivered Wantowin, hugging his branch for dear life.

"Oh, well--let's get it over with," said Jellia despairingly. "Blowing
away may not be so bad, and I'd rather do anything than stay up here."
Tucking the kit-bag under one arm, Jellia swung herself down by the
other and dropped lightly to the ground.

"What is the meaning of this outrageous behavior?" she demanded, as
Wantowin dropped fearfully beside her. "His Majesty shall hear of this,
I promise you!"

Kabebe, astonished to see Jellia as well as the Soldier with Green
Whiskers drop out of the tree, took a hasty step backward. Jellia
quickly followed up her advantage. "I'm amazed!" she said sternly.
"I thought you knew that I was to help you rule while King Strut is
away!" At this bold speech, Wantowin looked at Jellia in round-eyed
admiration. Though her cheeks were scratched and her crown slightly
askew, the little Waiting Maid looked every inch a ruler's helper, if
not a ruler. Even the Blowmen began to shift uneasily from one foot
to the other, their mouths falling open at Jellia's indignation. But
Kabebe raised both arms and fairly screeched at the little Oz Maid.

"How dare you speak to me like that?" she shrieked. "King Strut is lost
and never will return! I am Queen here--and I don't need your help!
Blowmen! Seize this impudent pair, march them to the edge of the cliffs
and blow them away." The crowd of Stratovanians looked uncertainly from
Kabebe to Jellia.

"His Highness left you here to _protect_ me!" Jellia reminded them
sternly. But even as she spoke, she knew they had decided to obey
Kabebe. She was flashing her star eyes so threateningly, and waving her
winged stick so close to their heads, that the Blowmen were afraid to
defy her.

"Come along, now," grumbled the first Blowman, taking Jellia roughly by
the arm. "You've made enough trouble here!"

The other two Blowmen seized the trembling Soldier and began marching
sternly toward the edge of Strut's Skyland. Jellia pulled back with
all her strength, as also did Wantowin, but, hustled along by the huge
Skylanders, they could do little to help themselves. Relentlessly, with
the jeering citizens of Stratovania running along after them, the
unfortunate Oz pair was dragged on.

"Just wait till your Master hears about this," sobbed Jellia, as the
Blowmen shoved them as near to the edge of the cliffs as they dared
go themselves. Then they stepped back to lift their horns. Jellia had
managed to retain her hold on the Wizard's kit-bag, but even so she
felt that their last moment had come.

Jellia gave a final sad little wave to the Soldier, who really was
quite brave now that his doom had arrived. The Blowmen pointed their
horns straight at them, but before they even could inflate their
cheeks, a fierce roar and splutter from the clouds caused every head
to turn upwards.

"The ship--the ship! The flying ship!" cried the First Blowman, letting
his horn fall disregarded to the ground.

"It's Strut!" screamed the Stratovanians, treading on one another's
toes in their sudden frenzy to be out of sight of their Master when he
landed.

"'Tis the Master himself!" cried the first Blowman, yanking Jellia and
the Soldier back from the edge of the Skyland. Pulling Kabebe along
with them, the Blowmen ran as never before, closely followed by Strut's
scurrying subjects. One moment later there was not a single airbody
in sight. Convinced that their cruel and brilliant ruler had returned,
they ran like rabbits. Some even flew, helping themselves along with
their winged staffs, while Jellia, sinking on a large, crystal boulder,
stared dazedly at the silver-bodied plane dropping rapidly toward them.

"It can't be the Oztober!" cried Jellia, delightedly. "It couldn't have
come back so soon!"

"It's _not_!" cried Wantowin Battles, tossing up his cap and waving his
arms exuberantly. "It's the other one, the Ozpril, and that means--"
In his extreme excitement, the Soldier tripped over a balloon bush and
fell seven feet into the air. "It means the Wizard himself has come to
help us," sputtered Wantowin, blinking rapidly as he landed hard on the
rock beside the young Oz maid. "Three cheers, Jellia! The Wizard of Oz
has saved us!"




CHAPTER 10

The Wizard in Stratovania!


It was indeed the Ozpril, just as the Soldier with Green Whiskers
had said. Even at a distance, Jellia could spell out the name on the
gleaming body and, as the silvery plane came swooping toward them, she
could not repress a shout of joy.

Too exhausted by the dreadful ordeal she had just been through to run
to meet the ship, she jerked off her scarf and waved it wildly over her
head.

About ten feet from the crystal boulder on which she had been sitting,
the Ozpril came to a gentle and perfect landing. Scarcely had the
whirr and sputter of its engine died away before the door of the
cabin burst open and down climbed the little Wizard of Oz, followed
by Dorothy and the Scarecrow. The Cowardly Lion, last of all, had
difficulty fitting his paws on the rungs and, after a trembling
descent, rolled over on his back, his four feet straight up in the air.
The trip had not agreed with the Cowardly Lion at all. Weak and dizzy,
he made no attempt to rise.

"Here you are at last!" cried the Wizard happily, rushing over to
Jellia and seizing both of her hands. "So THIS is where you've been!
Well I must say it's a fine place. Why it's beautiful, beautiful!"
Swinging round so he could look in all directions, the Wizard
positively glowed with interest and enthusiasm.

"What's so beautiful about it?" growled the lion without turning over.
"Is there any grass? Are there any trees? Is there anything to eat?"
Dorothy, on the point of embracing Jellia, gave a little scream, for
the Tell-all-escope, which she had picked up just before leaving the
plane, was making terse announcements. At this point it happened to be
pointed at Jellia. Clearing its throat it remarked in a superior way:
"You are now looking at Miss Jellia Jam, formerly of Oz, at present new
Starina of the Strat, by edict of Strutoovious the Seventh. Miss Jellia
Jam, Starina of Stratovania! Period! Stop, drop or point elsewhere!"

"Why, _Jellia_!" gasped Dorothy, letting the Tell-all-escope fall with
a crash, "are you, really? Oh my! I don't suppose you'll _ever_ want to
return to Oz, now. Why, you must be having a wonderful time!"

"Humph!" sniffed Jellia, with a slightly wan smile. "If being pinched,
chased and nearly blown to atoms is having a wonderful time, then I
guess I've been having it all right!"

"Tell me," requested the Scarecrow, who had been walking in a slow
circle around Jellia. "Does one prostrate oneself before a Starina,
or does one merely kiss her hand?"

"Neither," laughed Jellia. Jumping up she gave the Scarecrow such a hug
he was out of shape for hours. "But quick!--Let's all hop in the Ozpril
and fly away before something terrible happens."

"Fly away?" cried the Wizard, shoving back his high hat. "But, my
_dear_--we've only just come! I've been flying all night and need a
little rest and refreshment before we start off again. Besides, I would
like to see more of this interesting airland and its people, and add to
my data on the Strata."

"That's what Nick thought," observed Jellia, putting both hands on her
hips. "And look what happened to him!"

"What _did_ happen to him?" demanded the Wizard, realizing for the
first time that Nick was not among those present.

"You tell him," sighed Jellia to the Soldier. Sinking back on the
boulder she held her aching head in both hands. All eyes turned toward
the Soldier with Green Whiskers who opened and closed his mouth several
times without saying a word. The Wizard, now thoroughly alarmed, began
shaking him on one side and the Scarecrow on the other, until finally
Wantowin took a tremendous swallow and gave them the whole story.

When the narrator reached the part where Strut had ordered Nick and him
blown away, the Scarecrow hurried over to the balloon bush and began
picking the almost ripe balloons as fast as his clumsy cotton fingers
would permit. Not till he had about twenty did he even pause. So light
and flimsy was the straw man that the bunch of balloons on their long
stems kept jerking him into the air. After each jerk he would give a
little grunt of satisfaction.

"These are just to keep me aloft--in case of accidents," he explained
hastily to Dorothy who was watching him intently.

"But what of us?" asked the little girl, looking anxiously toward the
Canopied City which, at present, seemed absolutely deserted.

"You say that this wretched Strut, after naming Jellia Starina, forced
Nick to fly him to Oz?" exclaimed the Wizard, grasping Wantowin Battles
by both arms and gazing into his face.

"Not only that," Wantowin told him hoarsely, "but he's taken his
Blowmen and a thousand fighting men to conquer the country! He intends
to bring back Ozma's crown, scepter, jewels and all the treasures in
our castle!" finished the Soldier, dolefully.

"Oh, can't we do something Wizard?" cried Jellia determinedly. "I
simply won't be Starina! I won't! I WON'T!"

"Just the same--you make a very pretty one," murmured the Scarecrow,
patting the little Oz Maid consolingly on the shoulder. "But of course,
we cannot allow this bounding airlander to take Oz!"

"If Nick had not 'taken possession' of Stratovania for Ozma, he'd never
have thought of it," groaned Jellia. Rising stiffly, she picked up the
kit-bag from the crystal rock beside her.

"Ah--so you still have my magic kitty!" In spite of his anxiety the
Wizard smiled.

"Indeed I have," said Jellia firmly. "It saved us from being blown
away. I used some of your cheer gas, Wiz, but I didn't have time to try
out any of the other magic. Here, you'd better take it now and do let's
be starting. No telling when Kabebe and those three Blowmen will be
coming back."

"Forward march! Forward march!" Wantowin Battles started off all by
himself for the Ozpril. "Hurry, hurry!" he called over his shoulder.
"If those fearful people return they'll surely make trouble!" yelled
the Soldier, his voice growing more emphatic.

"Well, it's certainly a mix-up," said Dorothy, moving closer to the
Wizard.

"What do these people look like, Jellia?" she asked curiously. "Really
I'd enjoy seeing a few."

"They look like nothing you ever have imagined!" Jellia told her with
a slight shudder. "Goochers! Here come some now! And oh--it's those
Blowmen--and all the others! Look, Wizard! Could we reach the Ozpril
before they reach us?"

"Let's not try," decided the Wizard, as the Blowmen broke into a run.
"Even if we made the plane, they might blow us to bits before I could
get her started. Let's stay here and reason with them till I find
something in this bag to help us."

"Oh, woe is we! Oh, woe is we!" gulped the Scarecrow, taking little
runs and leaps into the air, hopeful that his balloons would lift him
out of the danger zone as the threatening company drew closer. The
Queen was marching grimly ahead of her subjects. In some way, decided
Jellia, she had discovered Strut had not been in the silver plane. As
the Wizard opened his kit bag the little Oz Maid rushed over to the
Cowardly Lion.

"Get up!" directed Jellia, giving him a desperate prod with her toe.
"Get up! We need your growl--and LISTEN!" she begged, as the big beast
rolled over and blinked sleepily at the approaching airlanders. "Do
everything I tell you or we are lost, LOST!"

Dorothy concluded Jellia had been quite right about the inhabitants
of Stratovania. They certainly were like no one she ever had seen, and
she could not help admiring the bold way Jellia stepped out to meet her
dangerous adversary.

"Just what are you doing here?" demanded Jellia, folding her arms and
tilting up her chin. "Did I not order you to leave us strictly alone?
Blowmen, take this Kabebe woman away!"

"Kabebe's our Queen," muttered one of the Blowmen, scowling at Jellia.
"At least," he corrected, glancing at his comrades, "she is our Queen
until Strut returns."

"What makes you think Strut has NOT returned!" questioned Jellia,
grandly. "Do you not recognize your Master!" With a regal wave,
Jellia pointed to the Cowardly Lion. "Do you not believe that this is
Strut--changed to this great beast by Ozma of Oz? But he is as powerful
and able as ever, to rule this Kingdom! Strut!" Imperiously Jellia
appealed to the Cowardly Lion. "Am I the Starina of Stratovania?"

The poor lion was as startled at Jellia's question as the
Stratovanians. From sheer shock, he rose on his hind legs and let out a
perfectly awful roar--which was perhaps as convincing an answer as he
could have given.

"There! You see?" Jellia shrugged her shoulders as Queen Kabebe and the
Blowmen turned white as ghosts and began to move away.

"It does sound like the Master," stuttered the Blowman, as the Cowardly
Lion followed up his roar with a reverberating growl.

"What are your Majesty's wishes?" inquired Jellia, inclining her head
graciously toward the trembling lion.

"Take that woman away, and have our supper prepared and served at once
in the Royal Pavilion!" directed the lion in his most commanding roar!




CHAPTER 11

King, King-Double King!


The effect of the Cowardly Lion's speech was astonishing, indeed. The
Stratovanians behind the Queen turned and ran for their lives. They
started backing away so fast they fell up at every step, so that their
progress was curious enough to watch. There were few animals on the
airosphere and certainly none that talked. Thoroughly convinced that
the Cowardly Lion was Strut and Strut was the lion, his terrified
subjects fled in all directions.

"Whew!" exclaimed the Wizard, snatching out his green handkerchief and
mopping his moist forehead. "That was quick thinking, my dear. Good
acting, too," he puffed, leaning down to give the lion an approving pat.

"Oh, wasn't he WONDERFUL?" Jellia hugged the lion so energetically he
fairly gasped for breath.

"Not so hard for ME to play King," he wheezed when he managed to escape
from Jellia's embrace. "After all--I AM King of the Forest!"

"Well, however that may be, Jellia is certainly Starina of the Strat!"
declared the Scarecrow. "I'm beginning to think Strut was right in
choosing her! You've been wasting your talents in Oz, my dear, and you
surely have earned a crown today!"

"But I don't want a crown!" asserted Jellia with spirit. Nevertheless
she was quite pleased at such high praise. "Now, look! Since the
Cowardly Lion ordered supper in the Royal Pavilion, perhaps we'd better
go. It will be as good a place as any to rest while we plan our next
move."

"Hi, there--is everything all right?" Wantowin Battles, who had hidden
himself behind a crystal rock at the Blowmens' approach, now peered out
nervously.

"For the present," called the Wizard, waving his kerchief, "for the
present. Come along, Soldier, we're going to have supper in the Royal
Pavilion!"

"Not I," said the Soldier, falling in step with the Scarecrow. "Count
me out of that!"

"I'm sure I'll not be able to eat a bite," sighed Dorothy, picking up
the tell-all-escope. "How can you even think of supper with those awful
airmen flying to the Emerald City. Oh, why don't we go after them now?"

"Because I do not believe Nick will take them to the Emerald City,"
said Jellia, straightening her crown. "He'll lose them somehow and then
come back here for Wanny and me."

"My own deduction, exactly," agreed the Wizard walking briskly along
beside Jellia. "But wherever Nick is, we'll find him--same as we have
found you."

"How did you find us?" asked Jellia, stopping short and staring up into
the Wizard's face. "I've been wondering about that."

"Well, you see," explained the little magician impressively. "On the
Ozpril there is a magnetic compass that shows the exact course taken
by the Oztober, provided both planes are in flight. By following the
compass, I followed your exact route. The delay in our arrival was
caused by the difference in speed!"

"Why, then you saw the very same things we did," cried Jellia, nodding
distantly to several airlanders who were bowing to the ground as the
little procession passed.

"The very same," said the Wizard. Then, as a little afterthought--"By
the way, what did you see?"

"Oh, nothing much but clouds, fog, an icecloud, and some flying
airimals with spikes," Jellia told him briefly, as she started up the
long steps to the Royal Pavilion.

"The same with us," said the Wizard, taking out a little book and
squinting hastily at the precisely written entries, "'Clouds, fogs,
spiked monsters,' AH!" He closed the book with a little exclamation of
admiration. "So this is the seat of Government?"

"I must say I prefer a castle," observed the Scarecrow, jumping up the
steps three at a time. "Still, all these columns are very pretty. Very
pretty indeed!"

"Is my throne comfortable?" inquired the Cowardly Lion with a lordly
sniff.

"That's right," giggled Jellia, "you _will_ have to sit on the
throne--that is, if Wanny doesn't mind?" The little maid turned
mischievously to the Soldier with Green Whiskers. "After all you are a
kind of King, too!"

"Not on your life!" declared Wantowin violently. "I wouldn't trade one
button on my uniform for all the jewels in Strut's crown, nor one
blade of Oz grass for all the rocks in Stratovania!"

"Bravo! Bravo!" applauded the Scarecrow. Having tied his balloons to
one of the pillars, he was bouncing up and down on a blue air cushion.
"Try one," he invited, shoving a couple toward the Wizard. Instead of
one, the Wizard put three of the air cushions together and stretched
out at full length.

"You can't imagine how tired a fellow grows after sixteen hours of
flying," he murmured drowsily. "Hah, hoh, HUM! I hope you girls will
excuse me if I take a little nap?"

"I wouldn't mind a nap myself," yawned Dorothy. Though she had dozed
part of the night before, she felt extremely sleepy. Without much
urging from Jellia, she curled up on a couch at the back of the
pavilion and was asleep almost before her head touched the pillows.

"Best thing in the world for them," grinned the Scarecrow, as Jellia
looked rather nervously from one sleeper to the other. "We'll probably
have to fly all night--if we get away from here at all! The Wiz needs a
good rest before he does any more piloting."

"Yes," agreed Jellia with a sigh, "I suppose he does. But I hope the
lion's not going to sleep, too?" Climbing to her throne, Jellia gave
him a good poke in the ribs. The lion, who was leaning back against the
cushions with both eyes closed, shook his head.

"I never sleep on an empty stomach," he declared firmly. "Besides, a
lion can go for days--if necessary--without rest or refreshment."

"Didn't you have anything to eat, at all?" inquired Jellia. Being
terribly hungry herself, she could sympathize with the hungry beast.

"Oh," answered the lion without opening his eyes, "we did have a few
square meal tablets the Wizard happened to have in his pocket. But,
while they fill you up, they don't seem to satisfy."

"Same with the food here," said Jellia.

"Food!" The Cowardly Lion's nose began to twitch with eagerness. "Where
is any?"

"If I am not mistaken, supper is approaching now!" announced the
Scarecrow, peering out through the side draperies of the Canopy. "Is
this one of your many servants, my dear?"

"Oh, I suppose so," said Jellia, as Bittsywittle trudged up the crystal
steps balancing a huge tray on his head. He had been warned of the
change in Strut, but the sight of the huge monster on the throne
unnerved the little fellow and he began to tremble so violently, the
dishes on the tray danced a regular jig.

"Just put the tray on the table," directed Jellia, patiently. "And
don't jump, Bittsywittle! Strut won't bite you."

"How do you know I won't?" roared the Cowardly Lion, opening his eyes
so wide Bittsywittle set down the tray and scuttled off like a hare.
Without much enthusiasm, Jellia noted Kabebe had sent them six saucers
of wind pudding and six glasses of air-ade.

"Don't touch it!" warned the Soldier with Green Whiskers, as the lion
slithered off the throne and ambled to the table. "It will make you
feel very funny."

"Well, I'd rather feel funny than sad," said the lion, sniffing the
pudding delicately, "and I'd rather feel funny than starve. Aren't you
having any, Jellia?"

"No, thank you!" Jellia shook her head sharply and exchanged a quiet
wink with Wantowin. But the Cowardly Lion did not notice the wink. Or
at least, he pretended not to and hurriedly lapped up all six saucers.

"Why, it's delicious!" he murmured rapturously, "Deli--"

"Hey, where you going?" The Scarecrow had been watching him enviously,
for the pink pudding looked so good he almost wished he found it
necessary to eat. But now he spun round in alarm, for without any
warning at all, the lion had swelled and puffed up like a carnival
balloon and gone wafting upward to soar in dizzy circles over their
heads.

"Oh, he's just putting on airs because he's King," teased Jellia,
wishing Dorothy were awake to enjoy the fun.

"But he might easily float off," worried the Scarecrow, pursuing the
luckless lion with outstretched arms. "Wait--I'll save you!" he puffed,
and snatching the cord from a long bell pull, he leaped on Strut's
throne. After several unsuccessful attempts he managed to lasso the
lion and tie him fast to the arm of the throne. "How do you feel?" he
called solicitously, for the lion, with closed eyes and a desperate
expression, was paddling his legs like a drowning dog.

"Oh, take it easy!" advised Jellia, relenting a little, "You'll float
around all by yourself and come down presently, as light as a feather.
I know 'cause I've tried it. Hello--here's Hippenscop! Now I wonder
what he wants? Oh! My goodness! He's actually brought me two of those
flying sticks!"

"Flying sticks?" exclaimed the Scarecrow, sliding off Strut's throne.
"You don't tell me?" The messenger, by this time had reached the top
step of the Pavilion. After a fearful look at the people from Oz, he
advanced timidly toward Jellia.

"I have brought the flying sticks, your Majesty!" explained Hippenscop,
holding them out with great pride and satisfaction. "I stole them from
two sleeping watchmen, and managed to bring them here without Kabebe
seeing me."

"KABEBE?" said Jellia, with an uncomfortable start. "Why, where is
Kabebe?"

"In Star Park," whispered the Messenger, hoarsely. "She's got all the
people worked up and excited! They're coming here presently to blow you
away!"

"What?" gasped Jellia in an exasperated voice, "Again? Why she knows
Strut will never allow that."

"But Kabebe says HE isn't Strut!" said the messenger with an apologetic
bow toward the Cowardly Lion, who, paying no attention to the
conversation, was floating in distracted circles above the throne.
"Now Junnenrump and I believe your Majesty, and consider you the best
and prettiest Starina Stratovania ever had! But no one else does, so
first they are going to blow away the Friend Ship and then they are
coming here to blow _you_ all away! So--while I do not presume to give
orders--if I were in your Majesty's place, I'd fly, this very instant
and while there still is time!"

"The boy is right," declared the Soldier, grabbing up his blunder-buss.
"Company! Fall in! Forward march!"

"Wake up! Wake up!" cried the Scarecrow, pummeling the Wizard with both
hands. "The Airlanders are destroying our Ozoplane!" While Jellia,
really touched by the messenger's loyalty, gave him one of her emerald
rings, Wantowin Battles lifted Dorothy off the sofa and set her hastily
on her feet.

"Forward! Forward!" he urged, pushing her ahead of him. "Kabebe's
coming to blow us away!" Dorothy--blinking her eyes after a look at
the Cowardly Lion floating over the throne--concluded she still was
dreaming. But the Soldier kept shaking her till she finally realized
she was awake and in danger.

"This way!" cried Jellia, as the Wizard bounced off his cushions.
"This way! The thing for us to do is to run to the other side of the
airosphere. Then, while those villains are blowing the Ozpril away, we
can be reaching the edge--and--"

"And WHAT?" queried Dorothy, looking at Jellia with round, scared eyes.
Jellia, for reasons of her own, did not answer. The Scarecrow already
had retrieved his balloons. Now he pressed the cord, still attached to
the Cowardly Lion, into Wantowin's hand.

"You must pull him along with you," directed the Scarecrow, earnestly.
"I am too light. And DO let's be starting!" The angry buzz of the crowd
on its way to Half Moon Lake, already could be heard. So, without
stopping to plan or reason, the travellers from Oz slipped through
the back curtains of the Royal Pavilion and began running as fast as
they could toward the other side of Strut's curious air realm. The
Wizard, grasping his kit bag in one hand and Dorothy by the other, went
first. Next came Jellia, carrying the two flying sticks; the Scarecrow
clutched his bunch of balloons. Last of all ran Wantowin, dragging the
growling and disgusted lion after him through the air. Fortunately
Stratovania is long and narrow. In less time than they had dared hope,
the little cavalcade came to the edge. Forbidding cliffs stretched
along the whole coast and the moist, blue air seemed actually to be
breaking in great waves against the rocks. As they all gazed unhappily
outward, a terrific "BOOM" made them all shudder.

"Well--there goes the Ozpril," mourned Jellia, patting the Wizard
compassionately on the shoulder. The Wizard, looking very angry and
grim, nodded his head. "Come on," puffed Jellia stepping closer to the
cliffs, "unless we want to go up with the ship we've got to jump! And
really--it's not so bad as it sounds! I've seen the airlanders fly with
these winged staffs, and these two will have to do for us all."

"How do they work?" asked Dorothy in a faint voice.

"Why, you tap them once on the ground to start, and once on the handle
to stop," explained Jellia breathlessly! "Now, suppose Dot and I and
the Scarecrow ride one, and Wiz and the Soldier, the other. And for
cake's sake--don't let go our lion!" added Jellia.

"But suppose he deflates and pulls us all down with his weight,"
groaned the Soldier. "Why can't he float along by himself?"

"Because I'm not going to have it!" said Jellia determinedly. "You must
hold on to him and risk whatever happens! And if anything does happen,
the Wizard will think of something!"

"I _have_ thought of something!" said the Wizard, composedly. "But
first we must do as Jellia says. HARK! Isn't that Kabebe calling you?"
As a matter of fact, it was. The Stratovanians, after witnessing the
blow-off of the Ozpril, had rushed back to the Royal Pavilion. Furious
at the disappearance of their victims, they now were rushing toward the
crystal cliffs, the screams of Kabebe rising above all the rest.

"What do we do--ride 'em like broomsticks?" jabbered the Scarecrow, as
Jellia with shaking hands held out one of the sticks to the Wizard.

"A good idea!" approved the little magician, watching with deep
interest as the wings on the tip of the staff opened and spread. "Come
along, Soldier, or the mob will get you yet!" With wildly beating
hearts, Dorothy and Jellia watched the Wizard and the Soldier mount
the flying stick and boldly leap from the cliff's edge. The Cowardly
Lion let out a terrified howl as he was dragged after them, but Jellia,
Dorothy and the Scarecrow, without further hesitation, mounted their
own staff and hurled themselves into space, just as the Queen and her
cohorts came panting into view.




CHAPTER 12

The Flight to Oz


Keeping the flying sticks in a more or less level position so they
would not slip off, and at the same time pointing them downward,
required no little skill. The Wizard, being used to magic appliances,
mastered his in double quick time. But Jellia, who sat in front on the
other staff soared up for seventy feet and across for fifty before she
learned the trick of flying it. During the first twenty minutes of
their flight, not a word was spoken. Each had enough to do to hold on,
and the Cowardly Lion, hurtling through the air beside the Soldier
with Green Whiskers, looked the picture of despair and discouragement.
A dozen times Dorothy, after a glance downward, gave herself up for
lost. But gradually the strangeness of their situation wore off.
Passing out of the moist, clammy strata just below Strut's Kingdom
into a dryer and less clouded area, the spirits of the little band of
adventurers rose. The wings of each flying staff, though not large,
were powerful as airplane propellers, and they flapped as rhythmically
as the wings of a bird.

"Not exactly like riding in an Ozoplane!" called the Wizard, waving
cheerfully to Jellia! "Still--it's better than falling, eh?" Jellia,
who had maneuvered her staff to a position close to his, nodded
emphatically.

"What worries me, is--the--altitude!" she called back presently.
"Somewhere or other we lost our air helmets. Will the effects of those
altitude pills wear off before we're out of the strat?"

"No, we'll be all right," promised the Wizard. "My altitude pills
condition one for the upper areas for several days at a time!"

"Oh! Then everything's splendid!" sighed Jellia, pushing back her curly
locks and smiling at Dorothy.

"Unless we meet a meteor, and then our flight will soon be o'er,"
quavered the Scarecrow, waving his arm in a doleful circle.

"Now, now, don't anticipate!" advised the Wizard, guiding the staff
with one hand and opening his kit bag with the other. For several
moments he had been anxiously regarding the Cowardly Lion. The buoyancy
resulting from the wind pudding was at last subsiding, and the swelled
and bloated appearance of the unfortunate beast was fast disappearing.
At almost any time now, the lion would become a dead weight. His
poundage--added to the Wizard's and the Soldier's--would be too much
for the flying staff and they all would plunge like plummets to the
earth. Feeling hurriedly around in the kit-bag, the Wizard pulled out
a small, black bottle. Uncorking it with his teeth, he turned it upside
down and held it out at arm's length until not a drop of its oily
contents remained.

"Now, don't be alarmed at a sudden bump!" he warned, as his companions
watched him with surprise and curiosity! "Whatever happens--hold on to
your staff!" Scarcely had the Wizard issued his warning when the air
directly beneath them froze into a solid block of blue ice on which
they landed with a series of bumps, and began sliding around in great
confusion. "Nothing to worry about! Nothing to worry about!" panted the
Wizard, keeping a firm hold on his flying stick and at the same time
managing to extract a large envelope from the kit-bag. "Hold on to
that stick, Jellia, and keep it down!"

The Cowardly Lion, completely deflated by his smack against the
ice, was sprawled flat as an animal skin in the center of the berg.
Dismounting from his own staff, the Wizard scurried perilously round
the edges of the rapidly falling block of ice scattering seeds from his
envelope with a lavish hand. Instantly, or so it seemed to Dorothy, a
thick green hedge sprang up, enclosing them snugly inside.

"To keep us from tumbling off," explained the Wizard, sliding anxiously
after Wantowin Battles, who was galloping round and round on his flying
stick like a child on a merry-go-round. "Whoa, whoa!" cried Ozma's
chief magician, grabbing the Soldier's coat-tails. "We need these
sticks to act as brakes to stop our fall!" Unseating the Soldier, the
Wizard lifted the flying stick and stuck it through the top branches
of the hedge. Bidding the others dismount from their staff, he thrust
it through the hedge on the opposite side. The wings of both staffs
kept up their steady beating and, as the Wizard had predicted, acted as
strong brakes on the plunging cake of ice.

"I was afraid we'd lose the lion," explained the Wizard as the little
company of adventurers gathered breathlessly round him.

"I'd just as lief be lost as frozen!" Sneezing plaintively, the lion
pulled himself to his feet and slid over to the hedge, bracing his back
against its stouter branches.

"It won't be long before we strike solid earth now, old fellow," the
Wizard observed brightly.

"Strike the earth!" roared the lion. "Well, good-bye, friends! I'll say
it now--before I'm squashed and scattered to the four points of the
compass!"

"Never mind, you'll make a lovely splatter!" teased the Scarecrow.
"Better stamp your feet, girls, to keep from freezing!"

"Here, stand on my coat," offered the Wizard, gallantly. "Not YOU!"
Indignantly he pushed the Soldier with Green Whiskers aside. "You can
stand on your own coat!"

"But it's against regulations for a soldier to appear without his
jacket," shivered Wantowin, piteously. "The manual of arms says--"

"How about the manual of feet?" snorted the Scarecrow, thankful he was
stuffed with cotton and incapable of feeling the cold. "Say, Wiz, I
guess this is about the oddest flying trip a band of explorers ever
had?"

"Did those magic drops freeze the air into ice?" called Dorothy. "And
how'd you grow the hedge so fast?"

"Yes, the drops froze the air," the Wizard bawled back, for the
rush of air as they shot downward made it difficult to hold polite
conversation, "And I just happened to have some of my instant sprouting
saplings in that kit-bag."

To keep up their spirits they continued to shout back and forth as
they fell. "I don't suppose we'll _ever_ catch up with Strut and Nick
Chopper now," screamed Jellia, hooking her arms securely through the
hedge.

"Why not?" cried the Wizard. "As soon as we land, we can fly these
flying sticks straight to the Emerald City, and be there before the
Oztober arrives. Remember now, the first one up after we hit the earth
is to snatch a winged staff."

"And how do you suppose we will be able to rise, after striking the
earth at one hundred and forty miles an hour?" roared the lion, a
trifle sarcastically.

"Well, it won't hurt _me_!" boasted the Scarecrow, holding to his hat
with both hands. He had lost the balloons long ago. "And I promise to
pick up the rest of you as soon as possible. Is--there--anything in
that kit-bag for breaks, sprains and bruises, Wiz?"

"Oh, hold your tongue!" snapped Jellia, trying to peer over the hedge.
"We're not going to crash at all! We'll probably get stuck on a steeple
or tower!"

"How'd Nick manage with his flying?" shrieked the Wizard, who was
anxious to change the subject. The less said about their landing the
better. Of course, they could take to the flying sticks and abandon the
Cowardly Lion, but that did not seem exactly sporting. So he resolutely
put the thought of it out of his mind.

"Grand, just grand!" answered Jellia, making a megaphone of her hands.
"Nick had the Oztober going smoothly as a swallow."

"That's good!" boomed the Wizard, beating his arms against his breast
to keep warm. "Maybe he'll get the best of Strut yet and bring the
Oztober safely down. I'd certainly like to have one ship left to
present to Ozma!"

"How long'll it be before we do get down?" called Dorothy, as the
Wizard paused for breath. "Seems to me we're falling faster. FASTER AND
FASTER!"

"Any minute now," predicted the Wizard, popping his head over the top
of the hedge. "Oh! It's going to be all right!" he shouted joyfully.
"We're coming down right in the middle of a great big--"

SPLASH!!!

Before the Wizard could finish his sentence, the block of ice struck
the smooth surface of a large, mountain lake, and went completely
under. As it came bobbing to the top, its drenched and shivering
passengers looked at one another with mingled dismay and relief.
Dorothy, picking up the Wizard's coat, handed it back and then
went slipping and sliding over to help the Scarecrow, who was too
water-soaked and sodden even to move.

"Wring me out! Hang me up to dry, somebody!" gurgled the straw man
dismally.

"Grrr--rah!" The Cowardly Lion, outraged at the cold plunge after all
the other shocks and indignities of the day, jumped over the hedge and
began to swim grimly for the shore. The Soldier with Green Whiskers,
better at carrying out orders than the others, already was pulling
one of the flying sticks from the hedge. As it came loose he took a
brief glance over the top, gave an agonized shriek and fell backward,
stepping all over the Wizard who was just behind him.

"An army!" shivered Wantowin, clutching his dripping
beard--"Thou--sands of them!"

"It is an army, too!" echoed Jellia, who had parted the hedge to have a
look for herself.

"What do they look like?" demanded the Wizard, shoving past the soldier
and grabbing the winged staff which was on the point of flying off by
itself.

"Like trouble!" said Jellia, reaching for Dorothy's hand. "They have
long bows and pointed red beards and--my goodyness--their beards are
pointed straight at us!"

"Bearded Bowmen, eh?" grunted the Wizard. "Well, that doesn't prove
they're unfriendly." The Wizard stuck his head over the hedge, barely
avoiding the arrow that sped past his ear.

"I suppose you'd call THAT friendly," sniffed Jellia, flopping on her
stomach and pulling Dorothy down with her. The Wizard had no time to
answer, for Wantowin Battles had one of the winged staffs and was
preparing to ride by himself.

"Drop it! Drop it at once!" commanded the Wizard sharply. "How dare
you fly off without us? Why it's plain desertion, that's what!"

"I was just going to do a bit of reconnoitering," mumbled the Soldier,
looking terrible abashed and then diving to a place beside Jellia as
three more arrows came hissing over the hedge. Quickly recovering the
staff, the wet little Wizard crouched down.

"Now girls!" he directed, panting from the exertion of holding down
both sticks. "When I give the signal, you and the Scarecrow mount one
staff, and Wantowin and I will mount the other, and fly high over the
enemy lines!"

"The higher the better," said Jellia, as a perfect shower of arrows
whizzed over their heads.




CHAPTER 13

The King of the Kudgers


The Wizard's plan worked very well, at first. He and the Soldier
astride one stick, Dorothy and Jellia, holding the poor, sodden
Scarecrow between them on the other, shot high into the air, across
the lake and over the amazed ranks of Bowmen drawn up on the bank.
Before the Red Beards had recovered from their surprise, the travellers
were winging strongly toward the turretted red castle that crowned the
mountain top. The Cowardly Lion, to escape the flying arrows, had swum
under water. Now, scrambling up the bank, he neatly skirted the enemy
and ran swiftly beneath the two, flying staffs.

"As soon as we're safely past this castle, we'll descend, rest, dry
our clothes and then proceed to the Emerald City," called the Wizard,
turning to wave encouragingly at the two girls.

But at that moment a dreadful thing happened. Sprawled on a huge camp
chair on the sloping terrace before the castle, its huge, red-bearded
owner suddenly sighted the flying sticks and their riders. Seizing
the long bow that lay beside him on the grass, he sent two arrows
speeding upward, one right after the other. Each arrow found its mark
and splintered a flying stick. With spine-shattering suddenness the
travellers crashed to earth. Dorothy, describing it to Ozma later,
explained that although she never had been in a battle, she knew
exactly how a warrior felt when his horse was shot from under him.
Except, of course, that a horseman would not have had so far to fall.
The Scarecrow, tumbling off first, softened the bump for both girls.
The Wizard and Soldier plunged headlong into a red-pepper bush. While
not seriously injured, they were grievously scratched and shaken. But
the worst was not the blow to their pride and persons, the worst was to
see the upper and winged halves of their precious sticks flying away
without them.

"Oh! Oh!" groaned the Wizard, leaping out of the pepper bush and
running for an anguished yard or two after the vanishing staffs. "This
is awful, AWFUL! Come back! Come down!" he implored, realizing even as
he shouted that the sticks could neither hear nor obey.

"Noo then, whew are yew?" The startled Red Beard hoisted himself out of
his camp chair. "W--itches riding on br--hoom sticks? Noo then, call
off yewer dog!" The Cowardly Lion, noting the mischief already done by
the Red King's bow, had seized it in his teeth and backed rapidly into
the bushes. The Wizard, reluctantly withdrawing his gaze from the sky,
now stamped over to the astonished owner of the castle.

"Just see what you've done," he cried angrily. "Destroyed the only
winged staffs in Oz. We flew them all the way from the Strat and now,
how are we to reach the Emerald City in time to stop the airlanders?
Don't you realize--but how could you?" In sudden discouragement the
Wizard broke off and stared despondently around the rugged mountain
top. "I must tell you," he began again in a hoarse and desperate voice,
"that Ozma and the Emerald City are in great danger. Strut of the
Strat and a host of his flying Stratovanians are descending to conquer
Oz and carry off Ozma's treasure. If we fail to warn her the city is
lost--doomed--I tell you! Since you have shattered our flying sticks
you must quickly supply us with some other means of travel. We must
reach the capital before morning!"

"MUST!" roared the Bearded Bowman. "Are yew shouting 'must' at ME?"

"Be careful!" cried Dorothy. For the Wizard, in his earnestness, had
stepped closer and closer to the red King. But her cry was too late.
Without any warning, the King's pointed beard, rising with his wrath,
pointed straight out and struck the valiant Wizard to the earth. For
a whole minute he lay perfectly still, staring up at this curious
phenomenon. Though he had seen many a beard in his day, he had never
been knocked down by one before.

"Whew are yew?" demanded the burly mountain monarch again. "How dare
yew fly over my castle and swim in my lake without permission?"
Stroking his beard which gradually resumed a vertical position on his
chest, he stared from one to the other of the adventurers. "No use to
run," he sneered as Wantowin Battles began to back toward the bushes.
"My bowmen will be here any moment now! But WHEW are YEW?"

"Wheww!" groaned Jellia, propping the bedraggled Scarecrow against a
rock. "A body'd hardly know, after such a welcome. Whew are yew,
yewerself, yew old Redbeard!"

"I?" roared the Bowman, taken completely by surprise. "Why, don't yew
know? I am Bustabo, King of the Kudgers and Red Top Mountain."

"I don't believe it," said the Wizard, leaping agilely to his feet and
shaking his fist under Bustabo's long nose. "A _real_ King would not
treat travellers as you have done, shoot away valuable flying sticks
and keep two lovely girls standing out here in the wind."

"How dew yew know what a King would dew?" demanded Bustabo, puckering
his forehead in an uneasy frown.

"Because," stated the Wizard, folding his arms disdainfully, "I
personally know all the most important rulers in Oz, and none of them
would behave as you have done. If you are a King, act like a King!"

"Whew are yew?" repeated the Ruler of Red Top, walking around the
little group with hands clasped behind his back.

"Oh, for Oz sake--tell him!" snarled the Cowardly Lion, poking his head
out of the bushes. "If he asks that question again I might eat him up,
pointed beard and all!"

"Well, this is the Wizard of Oz," explained Dorothy, as the Lion
stalked grimly out of the bushes, "Chief Magician for Ozma of Oz.
This--" Dorothy, with a wave of her hand, indicated the trembling
soldier, "This is Wantowin Battles, the Grand Army of Oz. Beside him
is our famous, live Scarecrow. I am Princess Dorothy of Oz and this is
Jellia Jam, First Lady in Waiting to Ozma. Coming toward you is the
Cowardly Lion of Oz."

"He doesn't look very cowardly to me," muttered Bustabo, putting the
camp chair between himself and the approaching beast.

"Oh, but I am cowardly," growled the lion growlishly, "and when I'm
frightened I never know what I'll do. I might even chew up the King of
this Mountain! Whoever heard of a King pointing his beard at harmless
travellers! Whoever heard of a King with a beard as hard and red as
yours, anyway! It's hard as iron from the looks of it."

"Harder!" agreed the King, evidently considering the lion's remark a
compliment. "All we Kudgers have red beards--not of soft hair like
his--" The Red King gazed contemplatively at the Soldier with Green
Whiskers, "but of hard hair like mine. I don't suppose yew've ever
seen a beard like this before. The point's sharp as a dagger, too," he
warned, as the lion sprang a pace closer.

"Oh, I'm sure it is," said Dorothy nervously. "And it's dreadfully
handsome, too. But could your Majesty please let us dry out in your
castle and then could you show us the quickest route to the Emerald
City? If you don't," finished Dorothy, clasping her hands anxiously,
"the ruler of this whole country of Oz may be captured and carried to
the Strat."

"What do I care about the Ruler of Oz?" sniffed Bustabo, scratching his
head in a most unkingly manner. "Ozma never does anything for me! Even
if she were conquered I'd still have my Mountain. Why should I help yew
or her or them?" His scornful wave included the whole little group.
"What can yew dew for me?" he asked sullenly. "Can yew sing?" His dull
eye brightened momentarily as it rested inquiringly on Dorothy.

"Well, a little," confessed Dorothy, smoothing down her damp dress.
Clearing her throat and fixing her eye on the top of a red pine, she
started in rather a choked voice:

    "Oh, Bright and gay is the Land of Oz
    We love its lakes and hills becoz--"

"There, there! That will dew!" Bustabo snapped his fingers impatiently,
and taking out a little book scribbled hastily: "Can't sing."

"Can yew dance?" he demanded, addressing himself to Jellia. "We are
short of good dancers on this mountain." Jellia by this time was in
such a state of cold and temper, she stamped her foot and turned her
back on the unmannerly monarch. "Can't dance," wrote Bustabo under the
first entry.

"Well, then--what _dew_ yew dew?" he asked, turning in exasperation to
the Wizard.

"I?" said the Wizard, twirling his water-soaked topper, "I, am a
Wizard. Naturally I supposed a King like yourself would have everything
he desired. But if that is not the case, tell me what you wish and
perhaps I can help you. Only be quick!" he added earnestly, "for we
have no time to lose."

"Sooo, yew really are a Wizard!" Bustabo's expression became almost
agreeable. "Well, then," he drew himself up pompously. "The Princess
whom I wish to wed has unaccountably disappeared. Find and return her
to this castle, and I will speed yew and yewer friends to the Emerald
City by the safest and swiftest route!"

"But that would take too much time," objected the Wizard, rubbing his
chin anxiously. "Who is this Princess? Why has she gone? What is her
name and what does she look like?"

"If yew were a real Wizard yew would know all these things without my
telling yew," answered Bustabo, looking suspiciously at Ozma's Chief
Magician. "I'll tell you this much, though. The Princess whom I would
marry is called Azarine, the Red. Not three days ago she was in this
castle, but on the morning of our wedding day she ran off into the
forest, and though all my Bowmen have been searching ever since, not a
trace of her have they found!"

"Humph, the girl showed very good sense, if you ask me," sniffed the
Cowardly Lion, shaking his mane, "What did you do? Point your beard at
her? Come on, Wiz! Let's go. We're just wasting time here."

"Aha, but yew cannot leave! Look behind yew!" Bustabo, with an enormous
laugh, pointed over his shoulder. Silently as Indians the Bearded
Bowmen had crept up and entirely surrounded the little company on the
green. Standing in a circle with bows raised and beards pointed, they
fairly dared anyone to take a step. "Soo, then, it's all settled!" The
Red King clapped the Wizard heartily on the back. "Don't think I have
not heard of yewer skill, Mister Weezard. Even here on Red Top we've
heard rumors of the wonderful Weezard of Oz. Now all yew have to dew
is walk into that forest, find the Princess and bring her back to me.
Meanwhile, I shall treat these others as my guests. They shall rest and
warm themselves and have all they wish to eat. If by morning yew have
failed to return, I shall regretfully be forced to throw them off the
mountain. If yew dew return, yew will find that Bustabo will keep his
word and bargain."

The Wizard hardly knew what to say.

"If he knows so much, why does he not help himself?" demanded one of
the Red Beards, stepping insolently out of the circle. "People who
can fly through the air on icebergs and sticks do not need help from
ordinary folk like us. Why doesn't he fly to the Emerald City if he's
so smart? I'll tell you why--because he's not the Wizard of Oz! He's a
fraud, that's what!"

"If he's a fraud then you're a rascal!" cried Jellia Jam, remembering
suddenly that she recently had been a Starina. "Your Princess is as
good as found, Mister King! Isn't that so, Wizard?" Meeting Jellia's
firm gaze, the Wizard nodded quickly.

"This young Oz maid is right, your Majesty! Before the sun rises
Azarine will return to this castle!"

"Yes--and now bid your vassals lead us into the castle!" ordered Jellia
sharply. "Bring us soup, meat, bread, vegetables, salad and plenty of
fruit and cake!"

Bustabo, after a long look both at Jellia and the Wizard, motioned for
the Bowmen to lead the visitors into the castle. The Cowardly Lion
trailed suspiciously along in the rear, keeping a sharp watch to see
that no beards were pointed at his friends. The Wizard accompanied
them part way, conversing in earnest whispers with Jellia and Dorothy.
Wantowin Battles supported the dripping and still helpless Scarecrow,
and each tried not to show the anxiety he felt when the Wizard finally
turned to leave them.

"Goodbye, all!" he said, lifting his dripping hat. "Goodbye,
Jellia--_here is your bag_!" Tapping the kit-bag significantly, he
pressed it into Jellia's cold hands. Then, without a word to Bustabo or
his Henchmen, he strode resolutely toward the dark forest that covered
the sides and more than half of the top of the mountain. Relenting a
little, the Red King sent a Bowman running after him with a basket of
provisions. Taking the basket with a brief nod of thanks, the Wizard
waved again to his friends and marched straight into the gloomy and
forbidding woods.




CHAPTER 14

Azarine the Red


The late afternoon shadows made the forest seem even gloomier. The
little Wizard, trudging along under the rustling red trees, hands
thrust deep into his pockets, never had felt more depressed or
unhappy. He had hated to leave his friends with a Monarch as cruel and
untrustworthy as Bustabo. Still, he had the utmost confidence in Jellia
Jam. The Young Oz Miss doubtless had some plan in her clever little
head and had chosen this way for him to escape, meaning to follow with
the others at the first opportunity. Anyway, he reflected, dropping
down on a heap of fallen leaves and resting his back against a tree,
they had the kit-bag to help them, if worst came to worst. Perhaps if
he concentrated and thought very hard, he could recall the powerful
incantation for locating missing persons and articles.

But a Wizard without his books and equipment, is almost as helpless
as a doctor without his pills and medicine bag. Try as he would, the
Wizard could not remember the proper combination of words to bring
back the missing Princess. His short nap in Stratovania had rested him
a little, but he still was dreadfully weary from his gruelling flight
and the recent shocks and mischances. The loss of the Ozpril had been
the worst blow of all and now his tired brain simply refused to work.
So, sitting sadly under the tree, he munched the sandwiches from the
basket, drank from the bottle of cold tea and wished fervently for a
fire to warm himself, for his clothes were still damp and clammy from
the dive in Bustabo's lake. It comforted him a little to know that the
others were drying out and enjoying a good supper in the castle. But
it was no comfort at all to realize that Strut and his legions were
winging their way toward the Emerald City--the city _he_ had built and
lived in so long it seemed more like home than any place he had known
in America.

The Wizard crammed the rest of the sandwiches into the basket and
started recklessly through the forest, tripping over tough vines and
rocks, bumping into trees and peering desperately about for traces of
a Princess, or for any sign that might tell him in which direction
the Emerald City lay. From the slant of the ground he knew he was
travelling down the mountain, and the deep, red foliage told him he was
somewhere in the Quadling country of Oz. But with night coming on and
the shadows growing deeper and darker, he probably would lose his
way entirely and never get out of the forest at all. He felt uneasy at
leaving his comrades behind in the Red King's Castle. Was it better to
try to save Ozma and the Emerald City, or to stay in this forest and
help Dorothy and Jellia and the devoted friends who had embarked on
this unexpected adventure with him?

Stopping short, the Wizard pressed both hands to his forehead in an
effort to make up his mind. Night already had overtaken him and it
was now so dark, it was impossible to see more than a foot or so in
any direction. Occasional roars, the snapping of twigs and the gleam
of yellow eyes from the thicket, caused him no little anxiety. At an
especially savage roar, he suddenly stopped worrying about Ozma and the
others and began to do considerable worrying about himself.

How humbling for a Wizard to be devoured by a hungry beast. Backing
softly away from the approaching monster, he began looking sharply
about for a hollow tree, a cave or even a clump of bushes where he
might conceal himself. On the tip of his tongue and ready for instant
use was the magic word which would render him invisible. Fortunately
he did remember that. But the Wizard never wasted words, magic or
otherwise. Resolving to wait till the last possible moment, he
continued to back rapidly and cautiously. Then, unexpectedly from
behind him came another distraction--the clear ringing of a silver
bell. At the same time the gloom was pierced by a dancing ray of
light. Swinging round, the Wizard flung up both arms and not knowing
whether to dash into the teeth of the monster in front of him, or risk
the lowered horns of the huge beast behind him, the startled magician
uttered the word that rendered him invisible.

"Brr--rah!" raged the burly, bear-like creature, rearing up on his hind
legs. "Where is that pesky man-creature? I saw him a moment ago, but
now, though I still catch his scent, he has hidden from me. And why
must you, Shagomar, come horning in to spoil my supper? Why cannot you
mind your own business, Br-rrah!"

"I am minding my own business," roared the creature addressed as
Shagomar. "AWAY--you Entomophagus monster! Haven't I told you time
and again to keep away from the cave of the Princess? The very next
bug-bear that comes prowling 'round shall have a taste of my antlers!
Get on with you now, and after this--leave harmless travellers alone!"

The great red stag made a short rush at the ugly beast blocking his
path. Large as a Grizzly, half insect and half bear, it held its
ground uncertainly for a moment, then shuffled off into the darkness,
grunting angrily.

The Wizard, who had jumped hastily from between the two beasts, had
listened to the stag's words with lively interest and astonishment.
Huge and sandy, with antlers of tremendous breadth, the huge creature
now stood quiet as a statue. From one antler prong hung a flashing
silver lantern. From another dangled the bell which had so startled the
Wizard.

"Well, friend! Are you still there?" whispered the Stag, softly.
Instead of answering, the Wizard uttered the word that would make him
visible. "Come with me!" directed the Stag, showing neither surprise
nor curiosity at the Wizard's sudden reappearance. "You will be safer
with us in the cave. Surely you are a stranger on Red Top or you would
know it is dangerous to wander in this forest at night."

"Oh, I don't mind danger," said the Wizard, striding sturdily beside
the Stag. "I am used to danger--and I must reach the Emerald City
before morning! Ozma and her whole capitol are threatened by a band
of ruthless Airlanders, and unless I can give them some warning, the
Emerald City certainly will be captured by Strut of the Strat. I am
Ozma's Chief Magician, fallen by great misfortune into this forest."

"I thought you might be a Wizard," murmured Shagomar, pausing to nibble
at a few tender leaves. "And you say the Ruler of the whole Land of Oz
is in danger? Hah, well--we all have our troubles." Exhaling his breath
noisily, Shagomar looked off between the trees with a troubled frown.
"I cannot direct you to the Emerald City, but I'm sure the Princess can
help you."

"What Princess do you mean?" asked the Wizard, curious to hear what
Shagomar would say.

"Azarine!" whispered the Stag, looking around carefully to see that no
one was listening. "Azarine the Red--Ruler of Red Top Mountain!"

"But I thought Bustabo was ruler of the mountain! I just came from his
castle!" sputtered the Wizard. "He certainly told me he was King of the
Kudgers."

"King of the Kudgers--pfui!" The stag shook his head as if a bee
were in his ear, while his bell played a regular roundelay. "Bustabo
was, till a week ago, Chief Bowman in Her Majesty's Guard. Using his
position and his men to help him, he has wickedly seized Azarine's
throne, insisting that Azarine permit him to be the King of all the
Kudgers. When our little Princess refused, she was locked up in the
tower. But, with the assistance of a faithful servant, she managed to
escape, and has been hiding in this forest ever since. I, being an old
and trusted friend, have been looking out for her and will protect her
with horn and hoof until her own loyal subjects unseat this miserable
imposter!"

"Whew--so that's the way it is?" The Wizard thrust his hands more
deeply into his pockets. "Well, that settles _that_! I won't do it--no
matter what happens!"

"Won't do what?" questioned the Stag, looking down sideways at the
little man.

"Oh--nothing!" Kicking at a stone, the Wizard walked along in a
depressed silence. Surely no one ever had been in a worse dilemma. If
he managed by a trick or by force to carry Azarine back to the Red
Castle, Dorothy and his friends would be released instantly and all
of them speeded on their way to the Capitol. If he did not return
the Princess to the castle, his brave and faithful companions would
be flung off the mountain, Strut would conquer the Emerald City and
everything would be lost. LOST!

But when, a few minutes later, the Stag pushed through a cluster of
bushes that concealed the entrance to the cave, and the Wizard stepped
into the presence of Azarine herself, he knew he never would force her
surrender to the infamous Bustabo.

Seated pensively on a rough boulder beside a small fire was the
prettiest little Princess the Wizard had almost ever seen. Her hair,
long and red as Glinda's, fell in satiny waves to her feet. She wore a
little mesh cap of pearls and a white satin, Princess dress. A long,
red velvet cloak hung loosely from her shoulders. Not exactly the
costume for a cave, but vastly becoming. Azarine's pale and flower-like
face was sweet and gentle and, when she saw the wet and weary traveller
with Shagomar, she jumped up to welcome him as graciously as though she
still were mistress of her castle.

"Why, it's the Wizard of Oz!" she cried joyfully, after a second look
at the guest. "Oh, we _all_ know the Wizard of Oz! I have a picture of
you right over the grand piano in my castle. Wherever did you find him,
Shaggy dear? Has he come all this way to help us?"

"It will be a great pleasure and privilege, if I may," said the Wizard,
sitting on a rock opposite the Princess and placing his high hat
between his knees. "Just now, I happen to be in as much trouble as your
Highness. But perhaps--" the Wizard looked thoughtfully at the Stag
standing motionless at the entrance of the cave--"can Shagomar run?"

"Oh, yes! Terribly fast!" Azarine assured him, eagerly. "Faster than
eagles can fly, than water can fall down the mountain, faster than any
creature on Red Top. Shaggy can do anything!" Jumping up, the Princess
ran over to lean her head against the Red Stag's shoulder. "He goes to
the village each day and returns with food. He has brought me blankets
for my bed, pillows for my head, and has kept away the fierce Bug-bears
and all other wild beasts that roam the Red Wood. I don't know what I
should have done without him!" The Princess added softly, "Shaggy's
such a dear!"

"You're both dears!" agreed the Wizard.

"Are we?" Azarine twinkled her eyes at the Wizard, "But Shaggy's the
biggest, and we've always been friends, haven't we?" The Stag, looking
down at Azarine with his bright, steadfast eyes, nodded so vigorously
that the bell on his antlers rang a veritable medley, and the rays from
the silver lantern danced into every corner of the dreary cavern.

"Well then," the Wizard rubbed his hands briskly together, "Shaggy
shall carry us straight to the Palace of Glinda, the Good Sorceress of
the South. As Red Top Mountain is in the Quadling Country, her palace
must be somewhere quite near."

"Oh, it is! It is!" beamed Azarine. "I've often seen her lights, from
the towers on Red Top. It's just a mile or two from the base of this
mountain. I never have seen Glinda, but I have heard she is very good
and a Powerful Sorceress. Do you think she can force Bustabo to give me
back my castle and my Kingdom?"

"I know it!" declared the Wizard, picking up his hat and clapping it on
the back of his head. "But before we start for Glinda's, I must go back
and rescue my friends from that thieving Red Beard."

Marching forth and back before the fire, the Wizard related all
that had happened since he and his party had started off in the two
Ozoplanes. Hearing the strange tale, Azarine almost forgot her own
troubles. When the Wizard told how Bustabo had broken the winged staffs
on which they hoped to ride to the Emerald City, and of the wicked
bargain he had driven, the little Princess generously offered to return
to the Red Castle so that Ozma and Oz might be saved. But the Wizard
would not hear of such a thing. "No!" he decided--"Shaggy and I will go
back and manage, somehow, to release my comrades from the castle. Then,
we all can start for Glinda's together."

"Wait," whistled the Stag, who had been listening to the Wizard's story
with distended eyes and nostrils. "Wait, first I will fetch Dear Deer."

"Who in Oz, is Dear Deer?" inquired the Wizard, as Shagomar melted like
a shadow through the dark opening of the cavern.

"His wife," explained Azarine with an excited skip. "And that will be
just splendid, for Dear Deer shall carry all of your friends, and we
can ride Shaggy!"




CHAPTER 15

In the Red Castle


And now let us peek into the doings of Jellia, Dorothy and the others,
after they mournfully watched the Wizard stalk off into the forest.

With Bowmen ahead of them and Bowmen closely following, the prisoners
marched slowly into the castle. Afraid not to hurry on account of the
sharp-pointed beards of the Guards, the little party progressed almost
at a run.

Hurrying them through the beautiful throne room and other cheerful
apartments on the first floor, the Bowmen lead them to a covered stone
stairway curving up from the back courtyard. Up, up, and up, tramped
the Bowmen, and up, up, and up trudged the weary travellers. It seemed
to Dorothy they had climbed a thousand steps before they reached the
top. Both girls were frightened, but holding their backs straight and
their chins high, they stepped haughtily along without even a glance at
their red-bearded captors. Unlocking an iron door at the head of the
stair, the Guards gruffly ushered them into a round, stone-walled room
at the very top of the tower. Relocking the door just as gruffly, they
took their departure.

"Thank gooseness, there's a fire!" shivered Jellia, running across
the room to hold out her hands to the crackling blaze. "As soon as
we're warm and dry we can decide what to do. Pull up a couple of those
benches, Wantowin, and for cake's sake, don't look so glum! Nobody's
been hurt yet!"

"Ah--but what of the morning?" The Soldier with Green Whiskers wagged
his head, dismally. "That rogue of a Red Beard will pitch us off this
mountain quick as _that_!" Wantowin snapped his cold fingers. "One toss
from this tower and we're done!" groaned the Army, turning away from
one of the barred windows with a positive shudder. Glancing out the
window nearest her, Dorothy saw that the tower had been built at the
very edge of the mountain. Jagged rocks far below, and long-dead trees
jutting out from the sides of the sheer precipice, made it even more
formidable.

"I'm going to sleep," mumbled the lion, settling himself near the fire.
"What I don't see, won't make me feel more cowardly."

"How true," thought Dorothy. Backing away from the window and
resolutely keeping her mind off the precipice, she began to help Jellia
drape the Scarecrow over a bench close to the fire.

"Not too close, girls," begged the Straw Man nervously. "Fire's almost
as bad for me as water. One little spark and--pouff! Nothing but a
bonfire of your old friend and comrade!"

At this point a sharp tap on the door made them all jump, but it was
only a servant carrying a large tray. At least, Bustabo was keeping
his promise about supper. The servant was round and jolly. He looked
sympathetically at the little company, but evidently was afraid to
speak to them. Placing his tray on a table in the center of the room,
he bowed stiffly and withdrew, locking the door carefully behind him.

"Not bad," said Jellia, lifting cover after cover from the silver
serving dishes. "Not bad at all! Give us a hand, Wanny, and we'll pull
the table over to the fire. My gooseness, this is almost as good as a
party!"

Seating herself next to Dorothy who already was busy, Jellia bit
rapturously into a crisp roll. "Mmm--mmm! This is the first food I've
tasted since we left the Emerald City. Draw up, Liony! This roast lamb
will make you forget that wind pudding. You may have _all_ the roast,
and we'll manage with the vegetables, the soup, salad and dessert!"

Dusk was falling and the tower room was hardly cheerful, but sitting
on their hard benches close to the fire, the prisoners dined almost as
well as though they had been in the Emerald City. Now that his hunger
was satisfied, even the Soldier with Green Whiskers began to look less
desperate. The Scarecrow, now completely dry though a little wrinkled,
was his old, witty self again.

As it grew darker, Jellia lit the rusty lantern on the stone mantel,
and Wantowin placed another log on the fire. There was a heap of
blankets on one of the benches. No other beds being visible, the
girls spread several on the hearth. Resting their backs comfortably
against the sleeping lion, they conversed in low and guarded whispers.
Wantowin, considering it his duty to stand guard, dragged a bench
across the doorway. Wrapping himself up in a blanket, he was soon
snoring louder than the Cowardly Lion. The servant had removed the
tray, and sounds from below had long since ceased. They knew it must be
way past midnight, but Dorothy and Jellia were unable to relax.

"I wonder how the Wizard's getting along!" mused Dorothy, pulling the
blanket a little closer. "It must be awfully dark in that forest."

"Oh, Wiz'll be all rights--depend on that!" Jellia spoke with a
heartiness she was far from feeling. "He'll have that Princess here
before sun-up. If he doesn't, we'll just light out and find him!"

"Light out?" inquired the Scarecrow, drawing back still further from
the fire. "How do you mean?"

"Yes," echoed Dorothy, moving closer to Jellia as a board creaked
somewhere below. "How do you mean?"

"Oh, I don't just know," admitted Jellia, frankly. "But there might be
something in this kit-bag to help! Let's have a look, anyway." Dragging
it from under a bench where she had stowed it on their arrival, Jellia
zipped it open and began feeling inside, curiously. "I never have had
a chance to examine it properly," Jellia said. "But that cheer gas
certainly came in handy, and the freezing fluid and sapling seeds were
pretty neat, too! My, whatever are these, now?" Folded neatly on the
very top were four suits of blue pajamas, with hoods and feet attached
like those in an infant's sleeping garment.

Holding one near to the blaze so she could read the pink placard on
the pocket, Jellia gave a little gasp. "Oh, listen!" she whispered,
catching Dorothy's sleeve. "It says:

    '_These falling-out suits have not been tested, but I believe
    they will work and prove safe and practical in case of
    accident.--WIZ._'"

"I suppose the Wizard meant them for his Ozoplane passengers to
use, instead of parachutes," decided Dorothy, fingering one rather
doubtfully. "Well, I should hate to be the _first_ to try one!"

"Oh, I don't know," Jellia, her head on one side, pensively considered
the blue pajamas. "I think they're real cute. I think--HARK! What was
that?" Dropping the pajamas, she clutched Dorothy as the unmistakable
tread of a heavy boot came stamping up the stair.

"Bustabo!" shivered Dorothy. "Oh--he's not going to wait till morning!
He's coming for us now! Oh, Jellia, JELLIA--what shall we DO?"
Dorothy's voice, rising almost to a shriek, roused the Cowardly Lion.
Cocking one ear and arriving at exactly the same conclusion as the
little girl, the lion sprang over to waken the Soldier with Green
Whiskers. The Scarecrow already was hurrying from window to window,
trying the bars with his flimsy, cotton fingers. At the window nearest
the fireplace he gave a joyful little grunt, for some former prisoner
had managed to saw through three of the iron bars. As the Scarecrow
pushed, they moved creakily outward.

"Quick! Come help me!" urged the Scarecrow, dragging the terrified
and only half-awake Soldier to the window. "On with those parachute
suits, girls! We'll jump before we're tossed out!" Dorothy and Jellia
exchanged desperate glances and then--as the steps on the stair thumped
louder and nearer--each grabbed a falling-out suit and zipped herself
tidily inside.

"Here!" panted Jellia, down on her hands and knees beside the Cowardly
Lion, "you can put your front feet in anyway--and _anything_ will be
better than _nothing_, when you fall!" To her relief and surprise, she
discovered that the pajamas would stretch! Even the lion could wear
them without too much discomfort. Except for a cramp in his tail which
was coiled tightly on his back, the lion fitted into his pajamas
nicely.

As the Soldier with Green Whiskers was trembling too violently to help
himself or anyone else, Jellia jerked and pushed him into one of the
falling-out suits. Then, picking up the Wizard's kit-bag and looking
solemnly back at her anxious comrades, Jellia climbed to the window
sill. "I'll go first," she announced, closing her eyes so she would not
see the rocks below, and her mouth, to keep her teeth from chattering.

"No! Let me! I insist on going first," cried the Scarecrow, springing
nimbly up beside Jellia. "Falling does not hurt me at all."

"Oh, hurry! Hurry!" begged Dorothy, glancing fearfully over her
shoulder. The footsteps were now so loud and near, she expected the
door to burst right open and Bustabo's red face to appear.

"Goodbye! I'm off!" Before the Scarecrow could stop her, Jellia was
off, indeed! Clutching the kit-bag to her bosom, she squeezed through
the opening between the bars and dove headlong into space! Next, the
Scarecrow, with a sad little wave to Dorothy, dropped out of sight.
"Help me push this so-called Soldier out!" puffed Dorothy, as the
Cowardly Lion signalled for her to go next. "If we leave him till
last--he'll never jump at all!"

"Halt! About face! Help! Mama! Papa! Help! Help! HELP!" wailed Wantowin
Battles. But Dorothy relentlessly forced him to the sill and through
the opening. As his wildly thrashing legs disappeared over the edge,
whoever was coming up the stairs, broke into a run. Thump, thump,
THUMPETY-THUMP! Trembling in every muscle, Dorothy climbed to the sill.
Spreading both arms, she launched herself into the air.

She heard the grunt of the Cowardly Lion as he forced his way through
the opening. Then the fierce rush of wind past her ears as she pitched
downward, drowned out all other sounds. At first she was sure the
Wizard's falling-out suits were failures, for the lion plunged past
her, falling like a plummet. She, too, was whirling downward so
fast she felt sure she would be crushed on the rocks below. Closing
her eyes, she tried to resign herself to whatever was coming. Then,
suddenly, the pajamas filled with air, ballooning out till she floated
lightly as a feather. The question now was--would she _ever_ come down?

There was no moon, and in the faint starlight she could make out three
other, bulky shapes spinning through the air just beneath her. By
kicking her legs and flapping her arms, Dorothy managed to miss several
jutting rocks and tree limbs. As she floated lower, the suit began
gradually to deflate, finally letting her down as softly as could be,
on a strip of sand at the base of the mountain. A little distance away
she could see Jellia, already stepping out of her falling-out suit,
and the Cowardly Lion, waiting impatiently for someone to help him out
of his. Wantowin Battles, very brave now that the danger was past,
already had stripped off his flying suit and was shaking and patting
the Scarecrow into shape, for the poor straw man had been completely
flattened out by his fall.

"Well, how did you like it?" called Jellia, hurrying over to help the
lion untangle himself. "After the first swoop, it wasn't bad at all.
Really, I quite enjoyed it!"

"_Enjoyed_ it!" choked the Lion, looking indignantly from Dorothy
to Jellia. "I'll never set foot in a plane again as long as I live.
Brrrrah! Ever since we left the Emerald City we've been falling--flying
and blowing about like yesterday's papers. Now that I'm on solid ground
at last, I intend to stay there! The rest of you may do as you please,
but I shall walk home if it takes a year!"

"I don't blame you," said Jellia, patting the lion soothingly on the
nose. "But we can't start without the Wizard. We'll have to hide here
till morning and then try to find him."

"Let him find us," growled the Lion, lashing his tail experimentally
to see whether there was any wag left in it after the shameful way it
had been cramped in the suit, "The whole trip was his idea--not mine!"

"Oh, hush," warned Dorothy. "Someone will hear you! Ooooh! Someone
has!" And sure enough, the faint tinkle of a bell come mysteriously
through the gloom.

"Mercy, do you suppose those Red Beards have started after us already?"
cried Jellia looking around for the kit-bag. "But how could they have
come down the mountain as fast as we fell?"

"They couldn't," whispered the Scarecrow, picking up the bag and
handing it to Jellia. "But don't worry, my dears! It's probably a
herd of goats or cattle. These mountaineers often put bells on their
animals. Just keep still and don't move and they won't notice us at
all." Flattening themselves against the rocks at the foot of the
mountain, the five adventurers waited tensely. But when a huge, shaggy
shape loomed out of the darkness and came charging straight toward
them, all five screamed and started to slither sideways.

"Wait! Don't run! Don't be frightened!" begged an agitated voice.
"Don't you know me? It's I! It's _me_! THE WIZARD!"




CHAPTER 16

Escape from Red Top


As the great stag came to a sliding halt, the rays from his silver
lantern cast a wavering light over the little group crouched against
the rocks.

"Hello! How ever did you escape from the castle?" demanded Ozma's
little Magician, sliding recklessly off the high back of his steed and
embracing them jubilantly. "We were just coming to help you. Girls,
Scarecrow, Soldier, Lion--may I present Azarine, the real Princess of
this Mountain, and Shagomar and Dear Deer, her friends!"

Dorothy and Jellia were so stunned by the unexpected appearance of the
Wizard, they were able only to manage a couple of breathless bows. And
indeed, the lovely picture Azarine made, seated demurely on the huge,
red stag, was enough to render anyone speechless. Shaggy himself was
breath-taking, too. Not only the lantern and bell hung from his antlers
now, but perched unconcernedly on the tallest prong, was a lovely,
white pigeon with a key in his bill.

"This pigeon was going to fly up to the tower with the key to the
door," explained the Wizard, as his five comrades continued to gaze
at him in stupefied silence. "Fortunately Azarine, who was imprisoned
there before you, had an extra key. She said Bustabo would lock you up
in the tower!" exclaimed the Wizard with a nod at the Princess. "But
since you already are out and down, we'll not need the key. Tell me,
how did you manage to escape? What did you do? Break down the door?"

"No--we just stepped out the window," the Scarecrow told him with a
nonchalant wave upward.

"You mean, you jumped all this distance?" gasped Azarine leaning
forward to peer between Shaggy's branching antlers, while Dear Deer
trotted closer to nudge Dorothy with her soft, moist nose.

"Well--sort of," explained Jellia, putting an arm around the Cowardly
Lion, who still was looking extremely sulky. "But first we put on those
falling-out suits, Wiz, and you'll be glad to know they really worked."

"Splendid! _Splendid!_" beamed the Wizard, with a satisfied shake of
his head. "You know--I'd completely forgotten them, but I felt sure
you'd find some useful magic in the kit. Did Bustabo keep his promises?"

"Well, he locked us up in the tower, and he gave us a pretty good
supper," answered Dorothy. "But we didn't like being prisoners, and
we didn't feel safe in that castle. Then, a little while ago when we
heard him thumping up the stair--we just decided to leave! And so--we
left!"

"So we see! So we see!" The Wizard grinned appreciatively, delighted
by the spirit of the two girls. "But perhaps we'd better be off! No
knowing when Bustabo and his Bowmen will be coming to look for you.
Shagomar and Dear Deer have kindly agreed to carry us to the castle of
Glinda the Good. Once there--with Glinda's magic to help me, I'll find
some way to deal with Strut, and to force Bustabo to give up Azarine's
throne.

"Now suppose you two girls and the Scarecrow mount Dear Deer, and the
Soldier and I will ride with the Princess." Dear Deer, at the Wizard's
words, moved over to a flat rock. Without any trouble at all, Jellia
and Dorothy climbed to places on her back. Then the Scarecrow vaulted
up behind, clasping his arms 'round Jellia to keep from slipping off.
When Wantowin and the Wizard had mounted behind Azarine, the two Deer
swung away from the mountain. With the Cowardly Lion loping easily
between, they ran swiftly toward the Southlands.

Their gait was so smooth it seemed to Jellia they were flying like
figures in a dream through the shadowy forest, with only the twinkle
of the silver lantern to light their way. As they raced along Azarine
again told the story of Bustabo's treachery and how Shagomar had
brought the Wizard to her hidden cave. Then the two girls amused the
little Princess with the story of their experiences in the Strat. They
told her all about their life at home in the Emerald City, and of the
curious celebrities who lived in the palace with Ozma. Azarine already
was charmed with the Scarecrow and the Cowardly Lion, and kept leaning
down to have a better look at the tawny beast trotting so unconcernedly
between the two deer.

"I tell you," she proposed generously. "I tell you--if Strut destroys
the Emerald City--you all can come back and live with me. That is--if
Glinda and the Wizard can make Bustabo give my castle and Kingdom back?"

"But I do hope we'll find some way to stop Strut! How long will it take
him to reach the capitol?" Dorothy called across to the Wizard.

"Well, it took us a night, and half a day to fly to Stratovania,"
calculated the little Magician, wrinkling his forehead. "So I'm afraid
if Strut and the Tin Woodman left yesterday, they'll be in the Emerald
City tomorrow. That is--today."

"And it's almost morning now," shivered Jellia, glancing off toward the
East where the sky already showed the first streaks of lavender and
rose.

"Now, don't you worry," begged the Wizard, holding fast to his high
hat, "As soon as we reach Glinda's castle and I have some proper magic
to work with, I'll find a way to make both Strut and Bustabo behave.
The few trifles in this kit-bag are a help, but not nearly powerful
enough for rascals like those. Look, girls, isn't that Glinda's castle
now?"

"Oh, it is! It is!" cried Dorothy, clasping Dear Deer around the neck
she was so relieved and happy. And the silver trimmed towers and spires
of Glinda's lovely, red castle, shimmering through the early morning
mists, were enough to make anyone happy. Flashing through the beautiful
gardens and parks, leaping hedges and flower beds as lightly as
swallows, the stag and his mate brought the little band of adventurers
to the very door of the castle.

"Goodbye, now," breathed the stag, as the Wizard and Soldier slipped
off his back and the Wizard lifted Azarine down. "Take care of my
little Princess!"

"Oh, don't go!" cried Dorothy, for Dear Deer seemed on the point of
vanishing, too. "Do stay and see how it all turns out. Later on,
wouldn't you like to go to the Emerald City and meet the famous
animals who live in the capitol?" Shagomar looked questioningly at
Dear Deer, and as his pretty little wife seemed interested, he allowed
himself to be persuaded.

"We'll wait in the garden," he whistled softly. "Houses and castles are
too stuffy and shut in for Deer people. If you need me, Princess, just
ring the silver bell." Lowering his head so the Princess could slip the
bell from his antlers, the stag stood looking at her solemnly.

"I will," promised Azarine, waving her little red handkerchief as the
two deer sprang away. They actually seemed to float off above the
flowers, so lightly and easily did they run.




CHAPTER 17

The Wizard Gets to Work


"Please announce us to your Mistress at once!" directed the Wizard to
the sleepy little castle-maid who presently came, in answer to his loud
knock.

"But Her Highness and Princess Ozma are not here!" stuttered the maid,
her eyes popping at sight of visitors so early in the morning. "They
left yesterday to visit Prince Tatters and Grampa in Ragbad!"

"Ha, well," the Wizard turned to the others with a little shrug. "Looks
as if I shall have to manage alone. A fortunate thing Ozma did not
start back to the Emerald City. At least _she_ will not fall into
Strut's hands. Here, HERE! Don't shut the door!" The Wizard quickly
pushed past the little serving maid. "Glinda will wish us to make
ourselves comfortable in her absence. Now then, Miss--Miss--?"

"Greta," mumbled the girl, looking bashfully at her feet.

"Oho--a Greta to greet, eh?" chuckled the Scarecrow, taking off his
hat and bowing to the ground. "Well, now, my dear Miss Greta, will you
kindly show these young ladies to suitable apartments, and tell the
cook to prepare breakfast for six."

"Make it twelve!" growled the Cowardly Lion, with a little bounce
toward the maid. "I could eat six all by myself!"

"Yes Sirs! Yes _Sirs_!" quavered Greta, running off so fast she lost
one of her red slippers.

"Never mind," laughed Dorothy. "Jellia and I know this castle as well
as our own. We'll show Azarine about and have time for a short nap
before breakfast." The hundred pretty girls who acted as Glinda's
Maids in Waiting were still asleep. In fact no one was stirring in
the castle except a few servants. Waving briskly to the girls as they
started up the marble stairway, the Wizard went striding toward the red
study where the Sorceress kept all her books on witchcraft, her magic
potions, her phials and appliances.

The exquisite palace of Glinda, over which Azarine was exclaiming at
every step, was an old story to the Cowardly Lion. Throwing himself
down on a huge bearskin, he soon was in a doze and making up the sleep
he had lost on the two, previous nights. Wantowin Battles had at once
gone off to waken an old Soldier Crony of his who drilled Glinda's Girl
Guard, and the Scarecrow, about to follow the Wizard into the study,
paused to look at the great record book.

This book, fastened with golden chains to a marble table in the
reception room of the castle, records each event as it happens, in the
Land of Oz. When Glinda goes on a journey, she usually locks the Record
book and takes the key with her. But this time, she had neglected to do
so, and sentences were popping up, row after row on the open pages. As
he bent over to peruse the latest entry, the Scarecrow's painted blue
eyes almost popped from his cotton head.

"Fierce Airlanders from the Upper Strat are descending on the Emerald
City of Oz," read the Straw Man, nearly losing his balance. "If
measures of defense are not taken at once, the capitol will fall under
the fierce attack of the invaders!"

"Wiz! YO, WIZ!" yelled the Scarecrow, taking a furious slide into the
study. "Hurry! HURRY! For the love of Oz, hurry--or Strut will blow
Ozma's castle into the Strat! The Record Book says so!" he panted,
grabbing the Wizard's arm to steady himself. The Wizard, working over
the delicate apparatus on a long table, looked up with an anxious frown.

"Now, now, you must be a little patient," he told the Scarecrow,
earnestly. "I'm hurrying just as fast as ever I can."

"But what do you propose to do?" demanded the Scarecrow, puckering
his forehead into almost forty deep wrinkles. "Can't you whiz these
Stratovanians away, or send them back where they came from?"

"Not without Ozma's magic belt," sighed the Wizard. "And you know
perfectly well that the belt is back in the Emerald safe in the castle!"

"Then can't you transport the safe here?" asked the Scarecrow, playing
a frantic little tune on the edge of the table.

"Just what I'm trying to do!" admitted the Wizard, turning a lever here
and a wheel there. "But this triple-edged, zentomatic transporter of
Glinda's does not seem to be working as it should. I'll probably be
able to fix it in a little while, but meantime--I tell you what you can
do. Post yourself beside that record book and the minute it announces
Strut's arrival in the Emerald City, rush straight back here to me!"

Before he had finished his sentence the Scarecrow was gone, and for the
next two hours the faithful Straw Man, without once lifting his eyes,
bent over the great book of records, reading with tense interest and
lively apprehension of the progress of the Oztober and the Airlanders
toward the Capitol of Oz.




CHAPTER 18

Strut of the Strat Arrives in Oz!


For several hours after leaving Stratovania, Nick followed the Wizard's
map implicitly. With Strut leaning over the back of his seat, eyes
glued to both map and board, there was nothing else he could do. If he
deviated from the course so much as a hair's breadth, the Airlander
would tap him on his tin head with his staff. The Tin Woodman had not
expected Strut to be so clever about navigating and as time passed, he
grew less and less hopeful of outwitting the wily Airman.

If he increased the speed of the Oztober in an effort to outdistance
Strut's flying warriors, they also increased their speed. Try as he
would it seemed quite impossible to lose them. But Nick Chopper did
not despair. He was counting on the night to help him. Never tiring or
needing sleep, he would have the advantage of Strut, then. As soon as
the Airlander relaxed in his seat, the Tin Woodman meant to fall upon
him, hurl him from a window, put all the plane's lights out and speed
off in the dark so swiftly the Stratovanians would be unable to follow.
That failing, he depended on the difference in altitude to subdue the
enemy. Perhaps when they reached the lower areas, Strut and his Airmen
would faint, wilt, and become harmless.

So, bolstering his spirits with these heartening hopes, Nick bore as
patiently as he could the long afternoon and the unpleasant taunts and
company of his captor. Repassing the ice crescent without meeting any
Spikers, the Tin Woodman zoomed along, not even bothering to answer
Strut's many questions about Oz and its inhabitants.

Night, when it did come, was especially dark and murky. No moon and
only a few stars dotted the arching Skyway. The darker the better,
rejoiced the Tin Woodman, taking quick little glances over his
shoulder to see whether Strut was falling asleep or showing any signs
of drowsiness. If it were just dark enough, he'd rid himself of
these flying pests in a hurry. But all his plans proved futile. As
the Oztober rushed on and on, and the hours dragged slowly by, Strut
grew even more alert and watchful. His star-shaped eyes twinkled and
glowed with sulphurous lights and he showed no more signs of weariness
than the Tin Woodman himself. The endurance of the Airlander and his
warriors was positively uncanny, and Nick, maneuvering the buttons
and wheel of the plane, grew increasingly discouraged and gloomy.
Flying at this rate they would arrive in the Emerald City early in the
morning, and to think that he was leading this band of savages upon the
defenseless City almost broke Nick Chopper's heart. As it was a red
plush heart, it could not really break, but it fluttered up and down in
his tin bosom like a bird beating against the bars of a cage. To Nick's
suggestion that he rest, Strut gave a contemptuous snort.

"I'll rest in Ohsma's palace," he sneered maliciously. "D'ye think
I trust you enough to sleep? Ho no! Just attend to your flying, Mr.
Funnel Top, and I'll take care of the rest of this little adventure."
After this, Nick made no further remarks, and morning found the Oztober
sailing high above the Hammerhead Mountains in the Quadling Country of
Oz. All too soon the Tin Woodman made out the glittering green turrets
and spires of the Emerald City itself.

"Quite a pretty little town," observed Strut condescendingly, as Nick,
his thoughts in a perfect tumult, tried to think of some excuse for not
landing.

"Why are you not flying over the castle?" demanded Strut sharply. "It's
the castle I am most anxious to reach. There--you can come down right
inside the walls. My, My! So this is the wonderful Land of OHS. Well,
it owes me its crown jewels and treasure to pay for your insolent
invasion of the Strat. Collecting them should prove pleasant! Very
pleasant indeed!"

"I wouldn't be too sure of that," snapped Nick, turning his head
stiffly. "I suppose you realize you are in great danger? If Ozma sees
you before you have time to storm the castle, you and your silly flock
of flyers are likely to be turned to crows or sparrows! The chances
are, she HAS seen you," concluded Nick, slanting the Oztober sharply
downward. At Nick's warning, the few clouds flitting across the
Airman's forehead became positively thunderous.

"Pouf!" he sniffed, snapping his fingers scornfully. "Do you suppose a
mere girl like this Ohsma of Ohs can frighten me? My Blowmen will soon
attend to her and anyone else who stands in our way!"

"That," shouted Nick, raising his voice above the roar of the
engine,--"remains to be seen!" As a matter of fact, the Oztober and
the swarm of flying Warriors had been sighted almost as soon as they
appeared above the green lands edging the capitol. Long before they
reached the Emerald City itself, terrified messengers had brought word
of the approaching airmen. Ozma being absent, Bettsy and Trot, the two
little mortal girls who lived with Dorothy and the Supreme Ruler in the
Emerald Palace, were in charge.

After one glance at the flying army, they had called all the
celebrities, servants and courtiers together and bade them flee for
their lives. Then Bettsy, Trot, and the Patchwork Girl, climbed into
the Red Wagon. With the Saw Horse to pull them, they set off at a
gallop to hide in the Blue Forests of the Munchkin Country till the
invasion was over. Tik Tok, the Machine Man, carrying all of Ozma's
loose jewels and valuables, marched rapidly after them. The Medicine
Man rode the Hungry Tiger and the rest of the palace inmates ran
helter-skelter down the yellow brick highway from the Capitol.

The inhabitants of the Emerald City itself, never having seen the
Wizard's Ozoplanes and having no way of knowing that Nick Chopper
was inside this one, were almost as afraid of the Oztober as of the
Stratovanians. Pelting into their houses and shops, they bolted windows
and doors and waited in terror-stricken silence for whatever was to
come. Only the Guardian of the Gate stayed bravely at his post, waving
his bunch of keys defiantly as the Ozoplane and the Airlanders swooped
over the castle wall.

"Ho! No you don't!" cried Strut, as Nick, having brought the plane
to a landing, started to run for the door. "You'll stay with me, as
a hostage!" he rasped, gripping the Tin Woodman's arm. Furious but
helpless in the iron grasp of the Stratovanian, Nick was forced to lead
him into Ozma's beautiful castle.

Strut's warriors, after fluttering like curious birds from tree to tree
and alighting in chattering groups on the wall, finally furled the
wings of their staffs, formed ranks and marched, singing and shouting,
up the steps after their jubilant leader.

In vain Nick watched for any signs of weakening among them. The Airmen
seemed as comfortable and carefree in this lower altitude as they had
been on their own airosphere. The Tin Woodman's only consolation was
that he had brought back the Wizard's Ozoplane in as good condition as
when it had started away so unexpectedly. It was also a great relief to
him to find the castle deserted. Not a courtier, servant or celebrity
was in sight--not even the Glass Cat or Dorothy's little kitten Eureka.
Strut and his rude army stamped through the first floor from end to end
without encountering a single soul.

"Very good," sniffed the Ruler of all the Stratovanians, shooting his
eyes sharply to left and right, "so this powerful fairy Ohsma of Ohs
has run off and left us her castle, and we win the war without blowing
a blow! Ho, Ho! I shall spend my summers in this enchanting palace,"
he added, with a malicious wink at the Tin Woodman. "But now," his
grasp on Nick's arm tightened. "Where are these famous, magic treasures
and jewels you were boasting of--this belt and fan and all the other
foolishments and fripperies?"

"In a safe in Ozma's own apartment," Nick told him, reluctantly. Now
that Strut was in complete possession of the castle, little was to be
gained by concealing the location of the treasures.

"Take me there at once," he commanded Nick, and--because the thousand
Airlanders were a bit too numerous for comfort--Strut ordered them out
to the garden, bidding them man the walls, guard the gates and all
entrances, and give the alarm should any of the Ozlanders approach.
Then, with lowered head and dragging feet, the Tin Woodman led the
way to Ozma's private sitting room. The safe, sparkling with emeralds
imbedded in metal more valuable than platinum, stood in an alcove
behind a pair of silk curtains. Giving little heed to the elegant
appointments of the apartment itself, Strut knelt before the safe,
fairly panting with impatience and curiosity.

"How does it open?" he asked, spinning the little knob on the door,
round and round without any results whatsoever.

"I am sure I cannot say." Resting one elbow on the golden mantel, the
Tin Woodman looked indifferently at the kneeling Airman. "Only Ozma and
our Wizard ever open that safe."

"Oh, is that so!" Strut straightened up angrily, "We shall see about
that. All I have to do is call one of my Blowmen and BLOW it open."

"Suit yourself," said Nick, with a shrug of his shoulders. "Only if you
do, the safe probably will blow away--and all the treasures with it!"

"Then how in the Dix shall I open it?" screamed Strut, giving it a
spiteful kick with his silver-shod toe. Worn out by his long vigil
of the night and the excitement of taking possession of the castle, he
lost his temper completely, and stamped and raged up and down before
Ozma's jewelled strong box. But thump and bang at the door as he
would, it still remained shut. "Ha!" he puffed at last, "I'll call my
Swordsmith! He can hammer it open!" Racing over to the window he yelled
loudly for the Swordsmith to come up.

But Strut's Swordsmith had no more success than his Master. Kindling
a fire in the grate, he heated a poker red hot and tried to burn a
hole in the door, but the poker did not leave even a scratch on the
glittering surface. "Stop! Stop! You Witless Woff. I'll do it myself,"
raged Strut. "I'll blow it open with star powder!"

"Surely you wouldn't do that," protested Nick, who up to this time had
been watching the effort of the two airmen with quiet amusement. "If
you blow up the safe you might set fire to the castle and destroy all
the treasures you have won."

"Oh, hold your tongue!" advised Strut. Dragging two smouldering logs
from the grate, he shoved them under the safe. Then, unscrewing the end
of his flying stick, he sprinkled a fine, black powder that smelled and
looked like gun powder, over the logs. Lighting a twisted paper, he
stuck it beneath the logs and jumped back, waiting impatiently for the
safe to fly apart.

Nick Chopper waited not a moment longer. Darting into the dressing room
he hastily filled a pitcher with water. But before he could return, an
ear-splitting explosion rocked the castle and flung him and the pitcher
through the doorway of the sitting room.

Without stopping to recover his breath, the Tin Woodman jumped up and
hurried across the room. The two airmen, with blackened clothes and
faces, stared dazedly at the spot where the safe had been. _Where it
had been_--because it was no longer there! Not a sign, emerald or
single splinter of it! There was no hole in the ceiling, so it could
not have blown up; there was no hole in the floor, so it could not have
blown down. The windows were unbroken, the walls, intact. Only the
two logs, smoking sullenly on Ozma's priceless rug, remained of the
Airlander's bonfire--unless we count the expression on Strut's face,
which simply blazed with wrath, bafflement and unadulterated fury.




CHAPTER 19

The Travellers Return!


"I told you not to do that," said Nick, running over to Strut and the
Swordsmith. "I warned you! Now see what you've done!"

"But where is it? Where did it go? Where did it BLOW?" screamed the
Airlander, his electric hair standing more on end than ever and
crackling like summer lightning.

"Ask Ozma! Ask the Wizard!" suggested Nick, folding his arms and
surveying the two quite calmly. "But if you take my advice, you'll
hustle right out of this castle before the same thing happens to YOU!"

"Who asked for your advice?" cried Strut, streaking over to the window
to see whether the safe had blown into the garden, though how it could
have done so without knocking a hole in the wall or ceiling, he could
neither imagine nor understand. Drawing aside the curtain he gave a
great gasp. Nick, who had hurried after him, uttered a loud shout of
joy.

"See! I told you!" cried Nick, and unhooking his oil can the Tin
Woodman let four drops of oil slide down his neck. "I told you!" Strut
made no reply. He just hung on to the curtain as if he were drowning
and the flimsy portiere, a life preserver. "See!" shouted Nick again.

But it was what Strut _didn't_ see that upset the Airman! What he
_didn't_ see was his entire army of nine hundred and ninety-nine
splendid fighters! The garden below was as empty and quiet as a park
on a rainy Sunday. "Calm yourself, Man! Calm yourself!" advised Nick
as Strut, turning from the window and noting the disappearance of his
Swordsmith, began running in frenzied circles, overturning chairs and
tables and tripping over rugs and foot-stools.

"Quick," he hissed, making a dive for the Tin Woodman. "Fly me back to
the Strat. At once! At ONCE! Do you hear?"

"Oh, yes! I hear you--quite well!" said Nick, eluding Strut easily.
"But I'll never fly you anywhere again! Besides, don't you realize you
cannot fly from magic! You'll have to stay, my good man, and face the
music!"

Nick's words seemed to bring the Airlander to his senses. Remembering,
even in defeat, that he was a powerful King and Ruler, he straightened
up proudly and, with one hand resting on an emerald-topped table, stood
looking tensely from Nick Chopper to the door. He did not have long
to wait, for in less time than it takes to count ten, nine excited
Ozians burst into the Royal Sitting room.

"Oh, Nick! Are you really safe? Is everything all right?" Jellia Jam
rushed over to the Tin Woodman and took both of his hands in her own.

"So _that's_ the fellow I was supposed to impersonate!" roared the
Cowardly Lion, thrusting his head between Dorothy and the Soldier,
"Well, Goosengravy, girls--I'm insulted!"

"And _is_ this really Strut--the high and mighty Stratovanian who has
come to conquer us?" Ozma, who was just behind the Soldier, gazed so
steadily and sorrowfully at the Airman that he uncomfortably averted
his gaze. He was, to tell the truth, astonished at the youth, beauty
and regal manner of the young Fairy. He cast a questioning look at
the others, crowding through the doorway. He already knew the Soldier
with Green Whiskers, but the Scarecrow, the Cowardly Lion, the small,
High-Hatted gentleman talking earnestly to a cheerful little girl, the
little, red-cloaked Princess and the tall, imposing, red-haired Glinda
were all new and bewildering strangers. For the first time since they
had met, Nick felt sorry for his discomfited foe, and as each of the
celebrities approached, he called out the names.

"Our famous live Scarecrow, His Majesty the Cowardly Lion, Glinda the
Good Sorceress, the Wonderful Wizard of Oz, Princess Dorothy of Kansas
and the Emerald City and--"

"Azarine, the Red," finished Dorothy, helping him out. For Nick,
completely at sea, looked inquiringly at the pretty little Princess in
the red cloak. At each introduction Strut bowed stiffly. If he could
have reached his flying stick which he had left standing beside the
mantel, he would have flown out the window--regardless of the fact that
he might never find his way back to the Strat. But as he could not
reach the staff, he stood stonily waiting for whatever was to befall.

"How'd you find Jellia and the Soldier? What became of the Ozpril?
Where's the Emerald safe?" questioned Nick, leaving Strut's side and
hurrying to seize the little Wizard by both lapels, for he could
restrain his curiosity no longer.

"Quite a story--quite a story," puffed the Wizard, closing one eye,
"Ask me again some long winter evening." Jerking away from Nick, he ran
off to fetch his black bag of magic, from which he had been separated
far too long.

"I suppose you are quite anxious to return to your own country,"
said Ozma, addressing herself to the Ruler of the Strat as she seated
herself on a small, satin sofa.

"Not without my army," blustered Strut, defiantly. "It is neither fair
nor honest for one ruler to destroy by magic the fighting forces of
another!"

"Your army is not destroyed," Ozma told him evenly. "It already is
in Stratovania, transported there by this magic belt." Lightly, the
dark-haired fairy touched the gem-studded girdle she was wearing.
"And--speaking of honesty and fairness," she went on seriously, "did
you think it honest or fair to come here, take possession of my castle,
and try to steal all my treasure and jewels?" Strut had the grace to
blush, and as there was no good answer to Ozma's question, he looked
haughtily over the heads of the company regarding him so accusingly.

"Well, have you anything to say?" inquired Ozma sternly. "Whether
or not you return to your Kingdom depends entirely upon yourself
and how you treat Kabebe." At mention of his Queen, Strut started,
involuntarily.

"By the way--here's that silly crown you made me wear!" said Jellia,
handing over the star-tipped circlet she had been wearing since her
visit to the Strat. "Remember me to the Piper when you see him and to
Junnenrump and Hippenscop."

"Are you sure you'd rather not live in the Strat as a Starina, than
stay here with us?" asked Ozma, smiling mischievously, as Jellia backed
away from the frowning airman.

"Never! Never! NEVER!" cried Jellia, taking a long step backward at
each word. "I've had enough of Kings to last me the rest of my life!"

A little ripple of laughter followed Jellia's blunt refusal, and taking
pity on the mortified Airlander, Ozma touched her belt and whispered
the magic word that would transport him to his own country.

"But can you trust him?" worried Nick Chopper, as the Stratovanian
vanished before their eyes. "How do you know he won't blow things up as
soon as he returns?"

"Because I've removed all power from his Blowmen's horns," Ozma told
him quietly. "He'll be all right, and for the kind of people he
rules--Strut probably is the best sort of ruler they could have."

"If you ask me," observed the Cowardly Lion, shaking his mane
vigorously, "the worst punishment anyone could have would be to live on
wind pudding and air-ade. Wooof!"

"Oh, what a shame!" Dorothy ran over to the mantel where the flying
stick had been standing. "The winged staff's gone! I rather had hoped
we could keep it for Hallow'een or New Year's or something!"

"Haven't you had enough flying?" grinned the Scarecrow, settling on the
green sofa beside Ozma. "By the way, where's the tell-all-escope?"

"Oh, I'm so sorry," Dorothy felt ruefully in the pocket of her coat. "I
must have left it in Strut's Royal Pavilion!"

"Never mind! I'll bring it back with the magic belt," smiled Ozma, "and
I presume it's all right to bring the safe back, too?" As Glinda nodded
in agreement, the Ruler of Oz touched her belt twice, and with two
thumps--one louder than the other--the safe and tell-all-escope thumped
down on the floor beside the sofa. The tell-all-escope was pointing
directly at Ozma, and it immediately began broadcasting her whole
history. So the little Fairy, with a chuckle of amusement locked it up
in her desk drawer.

While Ozma had been meting out her gentle justice, Jellia had been
telling Nick all that had happened since he was forced to fly Strut to
Oz. She told him of the arrival of the Ozpril, the escape of the whole
party from the angry Kabebe, their fall to Red Top Mountain, their rude
treatment by Bustabo, their meeting with Azarine and the red Deer, and
their final journey to Glinda's castle.

Spellbound, Nick learned how the Wizard finally had mastered the
intricacies of Glinda's zentomatic transporter and brought the safe
to her red castle just as Strut was on the point of taking violent
measures. With the safe in his possession, it had been an easy matter
for the Wizard to open it, take out the magic belt and transport both
Glinda and Ozma from Ragbad. After listening to the whole, exciting
story Glinda, Ozma and the Wizard had sent the Stratovanian army back
to the Strat and returned to the Emerald City to deal with Strut,
personally.

"It's certainly handy to have a Fairy around," sighed Dorothy, slipping
an arm around Ozma's slim waist. "One little wave of Ozma's wand and
we soared right into this castle! Isn't it grand to be home again? Not
that I didn't enjoy the trip," she added hastily, as the Wizard came
briskly into the room with his black bag. "Oh, Ozma! Just wait till you
see the beautiful Ozoplanes our Wizard has built for you!"

"She'll need pretty strong glasses to see the Ozpril," observed the
Wizard, looking rather sadly at the ceiling. "I expect it's hanging to
the tip of a star by this time! And I suppose Strut made hash of the
Oztober!"

"Hash!" sputtered Nick Chopper, indignantly, "I should say NOT. I've
taken splendid care of your ship, Wiz, and you'll find the Oztober
below in the garden, as bright and beautiful as the night she was
launched!"

"Hurray for Nick," shouted Jellia, waving the duster she already was
flipping briskly over pictures and books. "He should have a medal,
your Majesty! No one could have flown that Plane better than the Tin
Woodman!"

"He _shall_ have a medal!" promised Ozma, with a special smile for Nick
Chopper who was one of her special favorites. "And when he needs a
vacation from the Winkies, he can come here and be our official Pilot
answerable only to me and to the Wizard!"

"And I hereby present your Majesty with my two, splendid Ozoplanes--for
exploring, for pleasure, or for warfare!" announced the little Wizard,
extending both arms, dramatically. "But now you will have to excuse me,
as the Tin Woodman and I are leaving at once!"

"Leaving!" wailed Jellia, plumping down on a foot stool. "But you've
only just returned!"

"Can't help it," panted the Wizard, who seemed in a perfect phiz to
be off, "I'll show you the Ozoplanes later, Ozma, but now--Goodbye!
Goodbye, Dorothy! Goodbye Jellia! Take good care of Azarine till I
return!"

"But look--where are we going?" demanded Nick Chopper, as the Wizard
seized his arm and marched him rapidly toward the door.

"To find the Ozpril, of course!" explained the Wizard impatiently, as
if that should have been clear to everybody! "To find the Ozpril and
bring her back to the Emerald City!"

"But think how high those Blowmen may have blown it?" worried Dorothy.
"They may even have blown it to Bitz!"

"Then we'll bring back the pieces," declared the Wizard, firmly. "How
about coming along?" With a wink at Jellia Jam, he paused beside the
Lion who was busy licking his front paws.

"WHAT?" roared the Lion, springing up as if someone had shot him. With
a thoroughly indignant glance at Ozma's little magician, he bolted
through the curtains and was gone.

"Just _not_ a flyer!" mused the Wizard, shaking his head in amusement.
"Well, Goodbye, Friends! Farewell--all!" With an energetic nod he
stepped through the door, pulling Nick along with him.

"Couldn't you bring the Ozpril back with your magic belt?" questioned
Dorothy, hurrying over to the window to watch the plane's take off.

"I suppose so," answered Ozma, thoughtfully. "But they both are so fond
of flying, they'd much rather _bring_ it back, themselves! I'm sure of
it!"




CHAPTER 20

Azarine Is Restored to Red Top


From the castle window, the whole party cheered wildly as the Ozoplane,
roaring with power, soared over the wall, over the tree tops and up,
up, and up, till it vanished into the cloudless, blue sky.

"My pie! I do hope Nick doesn't start claiming any more countries,"
sighed Jellia, drawing in her head reluctantly. "And for cake's sake
why couldn't they have waited a few days? Of course the Tin Woodman
is never tired, but Wiz certainly needed a rest after all we've been
through!"

"Never you mind about that!" Glinda patted the kind-hearted little
Jellia on the shoulder. "The Wizard has his black bag along this time,
and in that bag there is a cure for almost everything--even lack of
sleep!"

"Look!" called Dorothy, pulling Jellia back to the window. "Shaggy
and Dear Deer are running races round the pond and here come all our
servants and celebrities! Hiah, Tik Tok! Hello, Scraps! See, Azarine!
That's the Patch Work Girl! You'll simply love her! We all do! Someone
must have sent word that Strut had been defeated!"

"I did--I dispatched one of my doves," explained Glinda. "And now, my
dear," the tall and lovely Sorceress motioned significantly to Ozma,
"is it not time to deal with Bustabo, and restore this Little Lady to
her Castle?"

"Oh, not yet! Please, not yet!" begged Dorothy, as Azarine looked
expectantly from Glinda to Ozma. "We want Azarine to stay here a long
time, don't we, Jellia? Come on Azzy, dear, I'll lend you an old dress
and we'll all go for a ride before lunch! You, on Shaggy--Jellia and I
on Dear Deer--Bettsy and Trot on the Cowardly Lion, and the Scarecrow
on the Hungry Tiger!"

"It's all right, go ahead," Ozma nodded indulgently as the little
Princess hung back. She did want so much to stay and meet all the
interesting people in the garden, but she felt it her real duty to
return to her subjects, now suffering under the cruel rule and temper
of Bustabo.

Then:

"I've already turned Bustabo into a red Squirrel!" Ozma told the
Princess, gravely. "In that form he still can enjoy himself, but do no
harm to others. I've also sent a message saying you will be home in a
few days, and placed Archibald the Archer in charge till you return!"

"Oh, how did you know Archy is the one I trust most?" marveled
Azarine, her eyes shining with happiness and astonishment. "Bustabo
threw Archy into a dungeon a week ago, because he tried to help me!"

"Ozma knows everything," confided Dorothy, with an adoring glance
toward the little Ruler of all Oz. "And everything's going to be
lovely! Come on, Azzy! I'll beat you to the fountain in the garden!"

So now, with her last worry removed, the little Princess of Red Top
skipped off with Dorothy to meet all the exciting celebrities in the
garden. The two deer, alarmed by the strange appearance of some of the
Ozlanders, had hidden themselves in a snow-ball bush. But Azarine soon
coaxed them out and in no time at all, they were chatting like old
friends with the Hungry Tiger and the Saw Horse.

Jellia stayed in the garden only a short while, for Jellia had other
things to do. The little Oz Maid was determined to have a party to
celebrate their home coming and soon, in deep conference with the
castle chef, she was planning the most gorgeous feast the Green Castle
ever had known.

It began at noon and lasted till nightfall. Even long after the tall
candles had burned low, the cheery company sat around the royal table
while Dorothy, Jellia and the Scarecrow told and retold their amazing
adventures in the Strat and on Red Top Mountain.

So delightful did Azarine and the two Deer find life in the capitol,
they stayed on and on. Each evening, the girls and Ozma, and her most
important counselors, would gather in her private sitting room. There,
looking at the magic screen, they followed the progress of Nick and the
Wizard as they flew on and on through the strange Highways and Byways
of the Stratosphere.

What a story they will have to tell us when they return.... WHAT a
story!

The End


﻿

                       The SILVER PRINCESS in OZ

 
_Dear Boys and Girls:_

This book will tell you all that happened when Randy
and Kabumpo traveled off to the Castle of the Red Jinn.
Halfway there they met a Princess from Anuther Planet
and her Thunder Colt; later, a villain named Gludwig.
With a name like that, we'd know he was a villain, wouldn't
we? Now DO tell me what interested you most in this
story; any Oz news you have heard lately and all about
yourself!

There goes the bell now! Well, I'm expecting a merry
message any minute from any of you! Exciting, isn't it?
So here I go to read my first letter!

Yours, with last year's love and this year's wishes!


                           LIST OF CHAPTERS


                1 The King Rebels

                2 The Elegant Elephant of Oz

                3 Gaper's Gulch

                4 Out of Gaper's Gulch

                5 Headway

                6 The Other Side of the Desert

                7 The Princess of Anuther Planet

                8 On to Ev

                9 The Box Wood

               10 Night in the Forest

               11 The Field of Feathers

               12 Arrival at the Castle of the Red Jinn

               13 Gludwig the Glubrious

               14 The Slave of the Magic Dinner Bell

               15 Nonagon Island

               16 All Together at Last

               17 In the Red Jinn's Castle

               18 The Red Jinn Restored

               19 Red Magic

               20 King and Queen of Regalia




CHAPTER 1

The King Rebels


In a far-away northwestern corner of the Gilliken Country of Oz lies
the rugged little Kingdom of Regalia, and in an airy and elegant
castle, set high on the tallest mountain, lives Randy, its brave
young King. When the Regalians are not busy celebrating one of their
seventy-seven national holidays, they are busy tending their flocks of
goats or looking after the vines that cover every mountain and hill,
producing the largest and most luscious grapes in Oz. These proud and
independent mountain folk have much to recommend them, and if they
consider themselves superior to any and all of the other natives in
Oz, we must not blame them too much. Perhaps the sharp, clear air and
high altitude in which they live is responsible for their top-lofty
attitude. Randy, it must be confessed, found the stiff and unbending
manner of his subjects and their correct and formal behavior on all
occasions stuffy in the extreme; and of all the stuffy occasions he
had to endure the weekly court reception was the stuffiest. Just as I
started this story he was winding up another of these royal and boring
affairs.

               "Hail! Hail! Give Majesty its proper due,
      Hail Randywell, King Handywell of Brandenburg and Bompadoo!
                          Boom! BOOM! BOOM!"

At each crash of the drums the young King winced and shuddered, then,
pulling himself together, he nodded resignedly to his richly attired
courtiers and subjects who were retiring backwards from the royal
presence. As the last bowing figure swished through the double doors,
Randy gave a huge sigh and groan. This was his three hundred and tenth
reception since ascending the throne. Ahead stretched hundreds more,
besides the daily courts where he acted as presiding Judge to settle
all disputes of the realm; countless reviewings of troops; inspections
of model goat farms; and attendance at numerous celebrations for
national heroes of Regalia.

"Oh, being a King is awful," choked the youthful monarch, loosening his
regal cape and letting it fall unheeded to the floor. "AWFUL! Will it
always be like this, Uncle?"

"Like what?" His uncle, the Grand Duke Hoochafoo, who was still
inclining his head mechanically in the direction of the door, caught
himself abruptly in the middle of a bow.

"Oh, all this silly standing round and being bowed at, this 'Hail!
Hail! and Way for His Majesty!' stuff. Galloping Gollopers, Uncle,
I'd like to step out by myself occasionally without twenty footmen
springing to open doors and fifty pages tooting on their blasted
trumpets. Why, I cannot even cross the courtyard, that a dozen
guardsmen do not fall in behind me!" Flouncing over to the window,
Randy stared out over the royal terrace. "Even the goats on the
mountain have more fun than I do," he observed bitterly. "They can
run, jump, climb and even butt one another, while I--" Randy let his
arms fall heavily at his sides. "I have not even anyone to fight with.
If just ONCE somebody would punch me in the nose instead of bowing."
Randy clenched and unclenched his fists.

"Hm--mm! So that's what you want!" Looking quizzically at his young
nephew, Uncle Hoochafoo crossed to the bell rope and gave it a savage
tug. As Randy's personal servant and valet appeared to answer the ring,
he spoke sharply, "Dawkins, kindly hit His Majesty in the nose!"

"The nose? Oh, but Your Lordship, I couldn't do a thing like that.
'Tisn't right, nor fitting--nor--"

"I said hit him in the nose," commanded Uncle Hoochafoo, advancing
grimly upon the terrified valet.

"Yes, yes, like this!" Bringing up his fist, Randy made such a
splendid connection with the valet's nose, Dawkins toppled over
backwards. Dancing from one foot to the other as the outraged servant
sprang to his feet, Randy prepared to defend himself. But with his hand
clapped to his nose, Dawkins was retiring rapidly. "Thank you!" he
muttered in a strangled voice, "thank you very much!"

"Did you hear that? He said 'Thank you,'" screamed Randy as Dawkins
disappeared with an agitated bow. "Oh, this is too much; I wish I were
back with Nandywog in Tripedalia--or anywhere but here, doing anything
but this."

"Now, now! Don't take things so hard," begged his uncle, patting him
kindly on the shoulder.

"Hard?" Randy glared at the old nobleman. "I can take things hard,
Uncle, but I cannot take them soft. I'll never forgive my father for
getting me into this--NEVER!" Randy's father, former King of Regalia,
tiring of a royal life and routine, had retired to a distant cave to
live the life of a hermit, and Randy, after traveling all over Oz to
fulfil the seven difficult tests required of a Regalian ruler, had
succeeded to the throne.

"You should not speak like that of your royal parent," chided Uncle
Hoochafoo, tapping his spectacles absently against his teeth, "for you
are very much like him, my boy, very much like him. Hmm! Hmm! Harumph!"
Uncle Hoochafoo cleared his throat thoughtfully. "What you need is a
change, a new interest. Ah, I have it! You must marry, my lad, you
must marry! Some pretty little Princess or rich young Queen, and then
everything will be punjanoobious!"

"Is being married anything like being a King?" inquired Randy
suspiciously.

"Oh, no. No, indeed, quite the reverse." The eyes of the old Duke, who
had once been married, grew glazed and pensive. "Once you are married,
you will feel less like a King every day," he promised solemnly. "And
the arguments alone will keep you occupied for hours." Uncle Hoochafoo
raised both shoulders and eyebrows. "Wait, I'll just go consult the
wise men about a proper Princess for you."

"No! No! I do not wish to be married," announced Randy, stamping his
foot. "I'll not marry for years," he declared stubbornly. Then, as
loud outcries and tremendous thumps interrupted them, he hurried over
to an open window just in time to meet a large rock that came crashing
through the amethyst pane.

"Look out!" blustered Uncle Hoochafoo, jerking Randy to his feet, for
the rock had completely bowled him over. "Well, I see you have your
wish. How's that for a knock in the nose, my lad? Not only the nose,
but also the beginning of a beautiful black eye!"

"Have I really?" Racing over to a mirror, Randy proudly examined his
injured orb. "Oh, Uncle, isn't this fun? Who did it? What's up, d'ye
s'pose--a revolution?" Hurrying back to the window, Randy recklessly
thrust out his head to stare down into the courtyard. Kayub, the
Gatekeeper, had his shoulder braced against the gold-studded doors in
the castle wall, but even so, the doors were bulging and creaking from
the thunderous blows struck from the other side.

"Open in the name of the LAW!" boomed a tremendous voice. "Thump!
Thump! Kerbang! OPEN in the name of a Prince of the Realm! Open this
door, you unmannerly Scuppernong!"

"No, no, stay where you are!" panted Kayub, waving desperately with one
arm for the guards to come help him. "Stay where you are, or go to the
rear entrance! Who do you think you are, hammering on the doors of His
Majesty's castle?"

"I don't think, I know!" raged the voice from the other side of the
wall. "I am a Prince of Pumperdink, you unspeakable clod. Open up
this door before I break it down!" And after even more furious thumps
another shower of rocks came flying over the wall.

"Great Gillikens! I think--I believe--why it IS! Kayub, Kayub, open the
door! It is a Prince!" shouted Randy, using both hands as a megaphone.

"'Tis nothing of the sort," grunted the Gatekeeper obstinately. "I
looked through me little grill but a moment ago and it's no Prince at
all, but a parade! A parade of one elephant, if you please, and when I
orders him to the rear entrance he ups with his trunk and flings rocks
over our wall!"

"But this elephant IS a Prince," insisted Randy, banging on the window
ledge. "Besides, he's a great friend of mine."

"Open the door, fool!" directed Uncle Hoochafoo, leaning so far out the
window his crown fell to the paving stones. "The King has spoken. Admit
this elephant at once! At once!"

"And about time," fumed an indignant voice, as Kayub reluctantly
drew the bolts and, swinging wide the doors, stepped back to let a
magnificently caparisoned elephant swing through. "A fine welcome this
is, I must say, for the Elegant Elephant of Oz! Out of my way, wart!"
Picking Kayub up in his trunk, the visitor jammed him down hard into a
golden trash barrel, trumpeted fiercely at the double line of guards
who had instantly sprung to attention, and went swaying across the
courtyard.

Now nowhere but in Oz could an elephant talk, much less come hammering
on the doors of a royal castle, but in Oz, as we very well know,
animals talk and act as sensibly as people, which makes Oz about ten
times as exciting as any other country on the map. But while I've been
explaining all this, Randy had run down the steps and was half-way
across the courtyard.

"Kabumpo, KABUMPO, is it really you? Oh, at last--AT LAST you are
here!" Impatiently waving aside the guards, Randy led his mammoth and
still muttering guest into the palace.

"Kaybumpo, is it?" sniffed Kayub, jerking himself with great
difficulty out of the trash barrel. "Such goings on. Well, all I
say--" The Gatekeeper peered carefully over his shoulder to see that
the elephant was safely inside the castle, then, raising his arm for
the benefit of the staring guards, he cried fiercely. "All I can say
is--just let him show his snoot around here again and I'll kabump him
down the mountain!"




CHAPTER 2

The Elegant Elephant of Oz


Fortunately the doors of Randy's castle were high and wide, and the
rooms so large and spacious, even a guest as large as this elephant
could quite easily be accommodated. Still irritated by the Gatekeeper's
insolence, Kabumpo followed the young ruler to the throne room where he
sank stiffly to his haunches and waited in outraged silence for Randy
to speak. Randy, however, was so surprised and happy to see his old
friend and comrade, he could not utter a word. But the Elegant Elephant
could not long withstand the honest delight and affection beaming from
the young King's eyes, and under that kindly glow his wrath melted away
like fog in the sunshine.

"Well! Well!" he rumbled testily, "how do I look?"

"Elegant!" breathed Randy, stepping back to have a better view.
"Elegant as ever. You've worn your best robe and jewels, haven't you?"

"Always wear my best when I call on a King," said Kabumpo, smoothing
down his embroidered collar complacently with his trunk.

"And I believe you've grown a foot," went on Randy, standing on tiptoe
to pat Kabumpo on the shoulder.

"A foot," roared the Elegant Elephant, throwing back his head. "Oh,
come now, I couldn't have grown a foot without noticing it, and I still
have but four--here, count 'em! Say, who in hay bales gave you that
black eye?"

"YOU did." Randy fairly sputtered with mirth at Kabumpo's discomfited
expression. "I was just wishing someone would hit me in the nose, when
along came that rock and NOW look at me!"

"Yes," put in Uncle Hoochafoo, regarding Kabumpo severely through his
monocle. "Now look at him!"

"Well, why didn't you tell that wart of a doorkeeper I was expected?"
demanded Kabumpo explosively.

"The King of Regalia does not hold conversation with his doorkeeper,"
explained Randy's uncle, giving the Elegant Elephant a very sour look.

"Oh, he doesn't!" Kabumpo lurched grandly to his feet. "Well, it's time
somebody told him about the Elegant Elephant of Oz and how he should be
received and welcomed. Let me tell you, sirrah--trumpets blow when I
come and go in Pumperdink!"

"Then why did you ever leave there?" inquired the Duke coldly.

"Oh, Uncle, don't you remember, we were to review the Purple Guard at
five? YOU go," urged Randy, fearful lest the tempery old Duke would
still further insult the even more tempery old elephant. "Honestly, I
feel a cold coming on." Randy coughed plaintively, at the same time
winking at Kabumpo.

"Very well, I'll go," agreed his uncle stiffly. "But do not forget
there is a dinner for the Grape Growers at seven, a concert of the
Goat Herdsmen at eight, maneuvers of our Highland Guards in the Royal
Barracks at nine and--"

"Yes, yes! All right!" Randy fairly pushed his royal relative toward
the door.

"An ancient pest if I ever saw one," grumbled Kabumpo as the Grand Duke
disappeared with a very grim expression. "Great gooselberries! Do we
have to do all those dumb things? Why, it's six years since I've seen
you, Randy, and I kinda thought we'd have a cozy time all to ourselves."

"I never have any time to myself," sighed the young monarch wistfully.
"I do nothing but lay cornerstones and raise flags and stand around at
Royal Courts and Receptions. Everybody bows and bows. Why, it's got so
I even bow to myself when I look in the glass, and NOW--" Randy raised
his arms indignantly. "Now Uncle Hoochafoo says I must marry."

"Marry!" trumpeted Kabumpo, twinkling his eyes angrily. "What nonsense!
Why, you are nowhere near old enough to marry. You were only about ten
when I met you and that makes you sixteen now, though I must say you
don't look it!"

"Oh, no one in Oz looks his age," grinned Randy, "and you know I'd been
ten for about four years before I knew you, Kabumpo, so that makes me
twenty or so, doesn't it?"

"I don't care what it makes you," rumbled Kabumpo, "it makes me mad.
And to think I actually helped get you into all this boring business.
My ears and trunk, Kingling, it's up to me to get you out of it."

"How?" demanded Randy, folding his arms and leaning despondently
against the mantel. "How does one stop being a King, Kabumpo?"

"Why, by stopping," announced the Elegant Elephant, spreading his ears
to their fullest extent. "By taking a vacation, my fine young sprig. By
departing and going hence for a suitable season. Do you suppose I came
all the way from Pumperdink to hear Goatherds tootling on bells and
Highlanders tramping round a barracks? I came to see you, my boy, and
nobody else." Kabumpo paused to blow his trunk explosively on a violet
silk handkerchief. "And after that I thought we'd go and visit the Red
Jinn."

"Oh, Kabumpo, could we?" Randy's face brightened and then as quickly
fell. "I don't believe Uncle Hoochafoo will let me go," he finished
dolefully.

"A King does not ask whether or not he may go, he GOES," stated the
Elegant Elephant, beginning to sway like a ship under full sail. "But
to avoid all arguments we'll not start till later. Could you be ready
by midnight, young one?"

"Oh, I'm ready now," declared Randy, picking up his cloak from the
floor and snatching a sword from its bracket on the wall. "Why ever did
you wait so long, Kabumpo? You promised to visit me six months after I
was crowned."

"Well, you know how it is at a court." The Elegant Elephant sighed
and settled back on his haunches again. "If it isn't one thing
it's another, but here I am at last. So--order up your dinner and
a few bales of hay and a barrel of cider for me. I crave rest and
refreshment."

"And what about the Grape Growers, the Goatherds and Highlanders?"
worried Randy.

"Oh, them!" exclaimed Kabumpo inelegantly. "Here!" Seizing a pen from
the royal desk, he scribbled a defiant message on a handy piece of
parchment.

"No admittance under extreme penalty of the Law. Do not disturb! By
special order of His Majesty, King Randywell Handywell of Brandenburg
and Bompadoo."

"See, I remembered all your names, and I've used them all!" Opening
the door with his trunk, Kabumpo impaled the notice on the knob, then
quietly closed the door and turned the key in the lock. And only
once did they open it, and then to admit ten flustered footmen with
Randy's dinner and Kabumpo's cider and hay. To imperious raps, taps
and numerous notes thrust under the door by the young King's agitated
uncle, they paid no attention whatever. They were too busy talking over
old times and the exciting days when they had journeyed all over Oz,
and with the help of Jinnicky, the little Red Jinn, saved the Royal
Family of Pumperdink from the Witch of Follensby Forest.

Pumperdink, as most of you know, is in the north central part of the
Gilliken Country of Oz, and ruled by King Pompus and Queen Posy.
Their son, Prince Pompadore, has much to say about affairs in that
Kingdom, but it is to Kabumpo, his Elegant Elephant, that Pompus turned
oftenest for counsel and comfort. Given to the King by a celebrated
Blue Emperor, Kabumpo has proved himself so wise and sagacious, Pompus
depends on him for almost everything. It is Kabumpo who advises His
Majesty when to have his hair cut and put aside his woolen underwear,
when to go to the dentist, when to turn in his old four-horse chariot
for a twelve-horse model, when to save money--when to spend it, how
to get on with neighboring Kings and how to get on without them. In
fact, so heavy are the duties and responsibilities of this remarkable
elephant, 'tis a wonder, even after six years, he managed this visit to
Randy.

Randy's first meeting with Kabumpo had been more or less by chance.
Sent out disguised as a poor mountain boy to pass the seven severe
tests of Kingship required of Regalian Rulers, Randy had happened to
come first to the Kingdom of Pumperdink and had been hailed before the
King as a vagrant. The Elegant Elephant, taking an instant fancy to
the boy, had insisted that he be allowed to stay on as his own royal
attendant, and in this comical capacity Randy's adventures had begun.
For scarcely had he been in the palace of Pumperdink a week, before
Kettywig, the King's brother, and the Witch of Follensby Forest,
plotting to steal the crown, caused the whole royal family to disappear
by some strange and fiery magic. Barely missing the same fate, Randy
and Kabumpo managed to escape. On their way through the forest they
met a Soothsayer who told them to seek out the Red Jinn. Now no one in
Oz had ever heard of this singular personage, but after many delays
and hair-raising experiences, Randy and Kabumpo finally arrived at his
splendid red glass castle. Jinnicky, it turned out, was the Wizard of
Ev, and a merry and strange person he was. Jinnicky's whole body is
encased in a shiny red jar into which he can retire like a turtle at
will, and the little Wizard's disposition is so gay and jolly everyone
around him feels the same way. Not only did he welcome his visitors,
but set off immediately to help the Royal Family of Pumperdink out of
their misfortunes and enchantment. Once in Pumperdink, Randy, with the
help of the Red Jinn's magic looking-glasses, was able to trace the
lost King and his family and release them from the witch's spell. But
before that, and while he was traveling here and there with Kabumpo and
Jinnicky, the little Prince was fulfilling all the tests and conditions
required by the ancient laws of Regalia of their Kings. In other words,
he had made three true friends, served a strange King, saved a Queen,
showed bravery in battle, overcome a fabulous monster, disenchanted
a Princess, and received from a Wizard an important magic treasure.
And now, looking back on those brave, bright days, he could not help
thinking that earning his crown had been more fun than wearing it.

"I wish we could do it all over again," he mused, as Kabumpo, after
recalling their visit to Nandywog, the little giant, tossed off the
last of the cider.

"But think where we're going now," gurgled Kabumpo, setting down the
barrel with a resounding thud. "If something strange or exciting does
not happen on the way there or back, or in Jinnicky's castle itself,
I do not know my Oz and Evistery. Can't you just see Jinnicky's face
when we arrive? I wonder if Alibabble is still Grand Advizier and if
the magic dinner bell is still working. Yes! Yes? Who's there?" Kabumpo
raised his voice irritably as a persistent whistling came through the
keyhole.

"It's Dawkins," explained an anxious voice from the other side of the
door. "The Duke says as it's high time His Highness was in bed, Your
Highness!"

"Oh, be off with you. Go dive in the feathers yourself. His Highness is
going to sleep in here on the floor." Kabumpo stood so close and spoke
so violently through the keyhole, Dawkins was blown back against the
opposite wall. For a time footsteps pattered up and down the corridor,
then finally deciding the young King was to have his own way at last,
the footmen and courtiers and even Uncle Hoochafoo took themselves off.
But not till everything was absolutely quiet and still and everyone in
the castle asleep did Kabumpo and Randy venture forth. Then, stepping
softly as his own tremendous shadow, the Elegant Elephant with the
young King on his back slipped through the silent halls and deserted
courtyard, past the snoring sentries and keeper of the gate and on out
into the foresty Highlands beyond the palace wall. Here in the bright
white light of a smiling moon they took the highway to the north, for
the castle of the Red Jinn lies to the north by northeast of Regalia
and Oz.

"How'll we cross the Deadly Desert?" murmured Randy, drowsily clutching
the few belongings he had tied up in an old silver table-cloth. In it
he had his oldest suit, some clean underwear, his tooth brush and his
trusty sword.

"Never cross a desert till you come to it," advised Kabumpo. "And we've
crossed it before, you know."

"Yes, I know." Smiling to himself, Randy dropped his head on his
bundle, and lulled by the agreeable motion of his gigantic bearer, soon
fell asleep, to dream pleasantly of Alibabble and of Ginger, slave of
the Red Jinn's dinner bell.




CHAPTER 3

Gaper's Gulch


Kabumpo, as happy to escape from Court life as Randy, moved
rhythmically as a ship through the soft spring night. Humming to
himself and busy with his own thoughts, he scarcely noticed that the
highway was growing steeper and narrower until he was brought up sharp
by an impassable barrier of rock.

"Now, Bosh and Botherskites! I was sure this road ran straight to the
Deadly Desert," he muttered, reaching back with his trunk to see that
Randy was still safely aboard and asleep. "Beets and butternuts! Do
I have to turn back, or plough through all this rubble?" The Elegant
Elephant's small eyes twinkled with irritation, and easing himself
to the right off the highway, he peered crossly up at the offending
mass of stone. Finding no way round here, he swung over to the left
and examined it closely from that side, and was just about to start
resignedly through the brush when he discovered that what he had
taken for an especially dark shadow was really a cleft in the rock.
It was barely wide enough for him to squeeze through without scraping
the jewels from his robe. "Now then, shall I risk it or wait till
morning?" mused Kabumpo, swaying undecidedly to and fro. "It might take
us straight through to the other side of the highway. On the other
trunk, it might lead into a robber's cave or plunge us suddenly over a
precipice!"

Edging closer, the Elegant Elephant thrust his trunk into the crevice.
It seemed smooth and solid, and, resolved to try it even though little
of the moonlight penetrated into the narrow opening, Kabumpo stepped
inside and proceeded to pick his way cautiously along the rocky
corridor. For about the length of a city street it ran straight ahead,
then curved sharply to the right. Here Kabumpo was heartened to see
a lantern hanging from an iron spike, while carved on the smooth rock
below was a blunt message.

"This is the entrance to Gaper's Gulch. Pause here and give three yawns
and a stretch for Sleeperoo, Great, Grand and Most Snorious Gaper!"

"Snorious Gaper! Ho, Ho! kerumph! Who ever heard of such nonsense?"
snorted Kabumpo, squinting impatiently down at the notice. "Ah, Hah!
HOH, HUM!" At this point, and without seeming able to help it, the
Elegant Elephant yawned so terrifically his head-piece fell over one
ear, and his jaw was almost dislocated. To recover his dignity and
with tears starting from his eyes, he gave himself a quick shake, then
stretched up his trunk to straighten his headgear.

"Splen--did!" drawled a sleepy voice. "You may now proceed as before."
Blinking angrily about to see who had addressed him, the Elegant
Elephant spied a round-faced and widely gaping guard standing in a
little niche in the rock. Strapped to his shoulders, instead of a
knapsack, was a fat feather pillow, and as Kabumpo came opposite the
guard's eyes closed, and falling back against his cushion he began
gently to snore. As Kabumpo stopped in some astonishment, the guard's
nap was rudely interrupted by a pailful of pebbles that cascaded
merrily down over his ears. There were twenty pails operating on a
moving belt above his head and at three-minute intervals they pelted
him awake, as Kabumpo presently discovered. The buttons on the guard's
uniform were illuminated and spelled out his name, "WINKS."

"Well, do I surprise you?" inquired Winks, shaking the pebbles from his
shoulders and rubbing his eyes with his yellow-gloved hands. Kabumpo,
too amused to speak, nodded.

"And you surprise me," admitted the guard, gaping three times just to
prove it, "you big, enormous, impossible whatever you are--you! Why,
you should have been underground months ago! But that'll all be taken
care of," he added smoothly. "Just follow the arrows and you cannot
miss--just follow the arrows--just fol--"

As Kabumpo, fuming from what he considered a mortal insult, lunged
forward, the little soldier's eyes fell shut again. Held more by
curiosity than by a desire to continue the conversation, Kabumpo waited
for the next bucket of pebbles to shower over the guard.

"'Low the arrows," went on Winks as calmly as if he had not been
interrupted at all. "There are forty guards to point the way. Forty
Winks," he repeated, closing one eye. "Ha, Ha! To point the way. Ha,
Ha! HOH, HUM! Do you get the point?"

As Kabumpo started off with a little snort of disgust, he felt a slight
prick in his left hind leg, for Winks, just as he feel asleep, let fly
an arrow from his old-fashioned bow. Before Kabumpo had reached the
end of the passageway he had passed forty of the Gaper Guards. After
his experience with the first, he did not stop for further talk, but
made the best speed possible, resolved to rush through Gaper's Gulch
when he came to it without even pausing to express his contempt. The
pebble awakeners were so neatly timed, each guard had a chance to speed
an arrow after the flying elephant, and by the time Kabumpo reached
the opening at the other end of the rocky pass, he had forty arrows
pricking through his robe or stuck here and there in his ears and
ankles. With his tough hide, they hurt no more than pin pricks, but
vastly indignant at such treatment, the Elegant Elephant began jerking
them out with his trunk.

"What do they think I am, a pincushion? Hoh!" he snorted, pulling out
the last one, and relieved to note that Randy had escaped the missiles
entirely. Indeed, the young King of Regalia was sleeping as placidly
as if he were home in his own castle. Kabumpo, too, felt unaccountably
drowsy, and as he pushed his way down into the rocky little glen his
steps grew slower and slower. So far as he could see by the light of
the fast waning moon, there were neither houses nor people in Gaper's
Gulch. In the center of the valley the rough stones and brush had been
cleared away and a series of flat rocks were spaced out almost like
a gigantic checker-board. Pausing beside the largest rock, Kabumpo
spelled out the name of Sleeperoo the Great and Snorious.

"What is this, a cemetery?" gulped the Elegant Elephant. "But that
could not be, for no one in Oz ever dies. Ho, Hum!"

Leaning up against a dead pine and blinking furiously to keep awake,
he pondered the unpleasant situation. Then, deciding that, cemetery
or not, he must have some sleep, he lifted Randy down from his back
and rolled him in a blanket he had thoughtfully brought along. Then,
divesting himself of his jeweled robe and head-piece, Kabumpo stretched
out carefully beside his young comrade and in twenty minutes was fast
asleep.

How long he slumbered Kabumpo never knew, but from a nightmare in which
he was struggling in a bank of treacherous quicksand, he awoke with a
frightful sinking feeling to find he was surrounded by forty more of
the Gaper Guards. Their buttons were also lit up and on each plump
chest he could read the word "Wake." The Wakes were busily at work
with pick and spade, and, unlike the Winks, did not seem the least bit
drowsy. Half convinced he was still asleep and dreaming, Kabumpo peered
out at them through half-closed lids, then gave a tremendous grunt.
Great Gillikens! He was sinking! The busy little Wakes had dug a trench
at least twenty feet deep all around him and now, careless of their
own safety, were shoveling away at the mound on which he was still
precariously resting.

"Quick, a few more to the right," directed a crisp little voice. "Watch
yourself there, Torpy. Ah, here he comes! Heads up, lads!"

As the Chief Wake spoke, Kabumpo felt the mound give way and down he
rolled into the pit, while the Wakes scrambled frantically up the sides.

"Did you hear that fierce TOOT?" puffed the little Guard addressed
as Torpy. "It's awake, fellows! What's wrong with those sleeping
arrows--don't they work any more? I myself saw forty sticking in the
big Whatisit when he came pounding out of the pass. Hurry, hurry! let's
get him under ground!" And, seizing their picks and spades again, the
Gaper Guards began shoveling dirt into the pit, paying no attention
to Kabumpo's furious blasts and bellows, which grew wilder and more
anguished as he suddenly realized that Randy was no longer beside him.

"What have you done with the boy? Halt! Stop! How dare you cast dirt on
an Imperial Prince of Pumperdink or try to bury the Elegant Elephant of
Oz?"

Shaking the mud from his head and raising his trunk, Kabumpo let out
such an ear-splitting trumpet, twenty Wakes fell to their knees, and
the others dropped pick and shovel and stared at him in positive dismay.

"But, sir, it is quite customary to bury all visitors," quavered Torpy
as soon as he could make himself heard. "We'll dig you up in six months
and you'll be good as new. Our dormitories are so very comfortable,
and all Gapers lie dormant for six months!"

"But I'm not a GAPER," screamed Kabumpo, interrupting himself with a
yawn both wide and gusty.

"Oh, but you soon will be," asserted Torpy, squinting down at him
earnestly. "Why, you're gaping already. Now lie down like a good beast.
Sleeping underground is lovely."

"LOVELY!" repeated all the rest of the Wakes, beginning to croon as
they shoveled. Kabumpo, opening his mouth to protest again, caught a
bushel of earth between his tusks and, half choked and blind with rage,
the Elegant Elephant hurled himself at the side of the pit. He could
almost reach the top with his trunk and, as the Wakes squealing with
alarm shoveled faster and faster, he wound his trunk round an old tree
stump and by main strength hauled himself up over the edge.

"NOW!" he bellowed, spreading his ears like sails. "Where have you
buried the boy? Quick, speak up or I'll pound you to splinters."

Snatching a log in his trunk, Kabumpo surged forward. But the terrified
Wakes, instead of answering, fled for their lives, leaving Kabumpo all
alone in the ghostly little valley.

"Randy! Randy, where are you? Oh, my poor boy, are you suffocated?"

Galloping this way and that, Kabumpo peered desperately about for a
patch of newly turned earth. But only the wind whistling drearily
through the dead branches of the pine trees came to answer him. Frantic
with worry, the Elegant Elephant began pounding with his log on the
headstones of the dormant Gapers, trumpeting at the same time in a way
to wake the dead.




CHAPTER 4

Out of Gaper's Gulch


Now the Gapers were not dead, but only sleeping, and soon the dormant
natives of this strange Hibernation lifted up their headstones and
began blinking out indignantly to see what and who had got loose in
their quiet valley.

"Silence! Cease! Desist!" shuddered Sleeperoo the Great and Snorious,
holding up his headstone with one hand and waving his other arm feebly
at Kabumpo. "A bit more of that racket and we'll be roused for months.
Who are you? And what is the meaning of all this Hah Hoh Humbuggery?"

Gaping ten times in quick succession, Sleeperoo stuck out his lip at
the Elegant Elephant. Kabumpo, startled by the spectacle of a hundred
lifted headstones and the round dirty moonlike faces gaping up at him,
said nothing for a whole minute. Then, stepping over to the Chief
Gaper, he burst out angrily:

"I am a traveler whom your guards stuck full of arrows and then tried
to bury. The young King who was with me has disappeared. I, the Elegant
Elephant of Oz and Pumperdink, DEMAND his release. What have you done
with the King of Regalia? Produce him at once, or I'll stand here and
trumpet till doomsday!"

To show he meant what he said, Kabumpo let out such a terrific blast
the headstones of his listeners rocked and shivered.

"Oh, my head! My ears! My ears, my dears! Give him what he's yelling
for," sobbed Sleeperoo, crouching under his headstone as Kabumpo lifted
his trunk for another trumpet.

"Is this--a--king?" called a fretful voice, and, lurching round,
Kabumpo saw a fat old Gaper now half-way above ground. Balancing his
stone on his fat head, he held Randy out at arm's length. "Instead of
digging him a proper bed, they stuck him in with me," he complained.
"Here, take him--he kicks like a mule and I can't abide a kicker."
With a relieved grunt, Kabumpo snatched Randy from the Gaper's damp
clutches, thankful the boy still had strength enough to kick. Randy's
face was quite pale and covered with dirt, but after a few anxious
shakes he opened his eyes and looked confusedly round him.

"It's nothing," sniffed Kabumpo. "It's quite all right, my boy. You've
just been buried to the ears and sleeping with a ground-hog."

"Buried?" shivered Randy, as Kabumpo set him gently on his back.

"Not buried at all, just lying dormant as a sensible body should,"
corrected the old Gaper, dropping out of sight with a slam of his
headstone.

"Go away! Please go away!" begged Sleeperoo, as Kabumpo began stepping
gingerly between the stones. "You're ruining our rest, you big bullying
Behemoth!"

"I'll not stir a step till you send a guide to lead me out of this
gulch," declared Kabumpo. "Call a guard or I'll call one myself."

"No. No! Please NOT! Torpy Snorpy--I say, Torpy," wheezed Sleeperoo,
stretching up his thin neck. "Come, come all of you at once. At ONCE!"

As quickly as they had vanished, the Wakes slid from behind boulders
and trees and up out of rocky crevices, their buttons twinkling
cheerfully in the dark.

"Conduct these travelers to the head of the valley," ordered Sleeperoo,
with a weak wave at the Gaper Guards.

"I thought this was a gulch," yawned Kabumpo, while Randy began to
shake the dirt from his hair and ears.

"A gulch is a valley," sniffed Sleeperoo, lowering himself crossly.
"Look it up in any pictionary. A gulch is a valley or chasm."

"And Gaper's Gulch is a yawning chasm," mumbled Kabumpo, as the Chief
Gaper and all the others began ducking back into their holes like
rabbits into warrens. "Good night to you," he added, as the last stone
slammed down. "Now, then, you boys fetch my head-piece and robe from
that pit and let's start on."

Kabumpo spoke so sharply ten Wakes sprang to obey, and after they
had brought them and both had been adjusted to Kabumpo's liking, he
signaled imperiously for Torpy and Snorpy to lead the way, and their
companions took thankfully to their heels. For a while the two little
Wakes marched ahead in a subdued silence as the Elegant Elephant picked
his way around rocks and tree stumps.

"Not mad, I hope?" Torpy, most talkative of the two, looked anxiously
over his shoulder.

"No, no--certainly not. I don't know when I've spent a more delightful
evening," Kabumpo said. "Being stuck full of arrows and then buried
alive is such splendid entertainment."

"Oh, I say now, we cannot all be alike," put in Snorpy, coming to the
rescue of his embarrassed companion. "If those arrows had taken effect,
you'd have been dead asleep before we buried you, and known nothing for
six months. That's a lot of sleep to miss, Mister--er--Mister?"

"Kabumpo," chuckled Randy, who was now wide awake and quite recovered
from his harrowing experience. "But you see, Kabumpo and I sleep every
night and not all in one stretch as you do."

"More trouble that way," murmured Snorpy, shaking his head
disapprovingly. "Keeps you hopping up and down all the time. In the
Gulch we sleep half the year and then we are done with it."

"And what do you do when you are not sleeping?" inquired Kabumpo,
stifling a yawn with his trunk.

"We eat," grinned Snorpy, his eyes twinkling brighter than his buttons.
"Breakfast from July first to August thirty-first; lunch from September
first till October thirty-first; and dinner from November first till
New Year's."

"You mean you eat straight through without stopping?" gasped Randy,
raising himself on one elbow. "All the time you're awake? Don't you
ever work, play or go on journeys?"

"I do not know what you mean by 'work, play and going on journeys,'
but whatever they are, we don't. We eat and sleep, sleep and eat and
everything is perfectly gorgeous," confided the Wake with a satisfied
skip.

"Gorging is gorgeous to some people, I suppose." Kabumpo tossed his
head to show it was not his way. "Then how is it you fellows are not
sleeping along with the other Gapers?"

"Oh, we're trained to sleep in summer and fall and to eat in winter and
spring. The Winks are not so clever at staying awake as we are, but
they'll learn, and meanwhile the pebbles keep them fairly active."

"Yes, active enough to shoot at visitors," grunted Kabumpo, winking
back at Randy. "Do you shoot one another asleep or is that a special
treat you reserve for travelers?"

"We just shoot at travelers," admitted Snorpy, quite cheerfully.
"Otherwise they would interfere with our customs, interrupt our
sleeping and eating and wake us up out of season."

"Just as we did," chuckled Randy. "I suppose we interrupted your
dinner, this being one of the dinner months?" Both Guards nodded,
exchanging pleased little smiles.

"Come on back and have a bite with us," invited Snorpy generously.
"We've weak fish for the first week, chops for the second--"

Randy, tugging at Kabumpo's collar, begged him to stop, for Randy was
hungry as a brace of bears, but the Elegant Elephant, shaking his
head till all his jewels rattled, declined the invitation with great
firmness.

"No knowing what will come of it," he whispered to his disappointed
young comrade. "Might put us to sleep for a century and it's about all
I can do to keep my eyes open now. Wait till we're out of this goopy
gulch, my lad, and we'll eat and sleep like gentlemen. After all, we
are gentlemen and not ground-hogs."

Urging his guides to greater speed, the weary beast pushed doggedly
on through the brush and stubble. Snorpy and Torpy, insulted by the
shortness with which the Elegant Elephant had refused their invitation,
had little more to say, and in less than an hour had brought the
travelers to the end of the rocky little valley. From where they stood,
a crooked path wound crazily upward, and with a silent wave aloft the
two Wakes turned and ran.

"Back to their dinner," sighed Randy, looking hungrily after them.
But Kabumpo, charmed to see the last of the ghostly gulch and its
inhabitants, began to ascend the path, not even stopping for breath
till he had come to the top. Even after this, he traveled on for about
five miles to make sure no sleepy vapors or Gapers would trouble them
again. The moon had waned and the stars grown faint as he stopped
at last in a small patch of woodland. Here, without removing his
head-piece or robe, Kabumpo braced his back against a mighty oak
and fell asleep on his feet, and Randy, soothed and rocked by his
tremendous snores, soon closed his eyes and slept also.




CHAPTER 5

Headway


When Randy wakened, Kabumpo had already started on, grumbling under
his breath, because nowhere in sight was there a green bush, a tree or
anything at all that an elephant or little boy might eat.

"Where are we?" yawned Randy, sitting up and rubbing his eyes with his
knuckles. "Great Gillikens, this is as bad as Gaper's Gulch!"

"All the countries bordering on the Deadly Desert are queer no-count
little places," sniffed the Elegant Elephant, angrily jerking his robe
off a cactus. "And from the feel of the air, we must be near the
desert now."

At mention of the Deadly Desert, Randy lapsed into an uneasy silence,
for how could they ever cross this tract of burning sand, and how could
they reach Ev or Jinnicky's castles unless they did cross it? While
this vast belt of destroying sand effectively kept enemies out of Oz,
it also kept the Ozians in.

"If we only had some of Jinnicky's magic or even his silver dinner bell
to bring us a good breakfast!" sighed Randy, glancing round hungrily.
"Pretty stupid of me not to have brought along a lunch, and there's not
even a brook or stream in this miserable little patch of woods where a
body could quench his thirst. Maybe it will rain, and that would help a
little."

"Maybe," admitted Kabumpo, squinting up at the leaden sky. "Anyway,
here we are out of the woods, but take a look at those rocks!"

"And those heads behind the rocks," whispered Randy, clutching
Kabumpo's collar.

"There's something pretty odd about those heads, if you ask me,"
wheezed the Elegant Elephant, curling up his trunk. "Odd or I'm losing
my eye and ear sight."

"Odd!" hissed Randy, tightening his hold on Kabumpo's collar. "Good
goats and gravy! They're flying round loose like birds. Why, they've
got no bodies on 'em, no bodies at all!"

"Read the sign," directed Kabumpo, uncurling his trunk and pointing
to a crude warning scratched on a flat slab at the edge of the road
leading to the rocky promontory above.

"Heads up! This road leads to Headland, nobody's allowed."

"Humph! Well, we won't make much headway without our bodies," grunted
Kabumpo, as Randy read the message slowly to himself. "Such impudence!
Why should we pay any attention to such stuff? Bodies or not, we're
going on, and how can fellows minus feet and arms hope to stop us?"

"They might crash down on us with their heads," worried Randy, as an
angry flock of Headmen circled round and round at the top of the road,
"and those heads look hard."

"Not any harder than mine. Keep your crown on, Randy," advised Kabumpo
grimly, "the spikes will dent 'em good, and if you reach down in my
left-hand pocket you'll find a short club. The club will be better than
your sword; you can't cut a head off no neck and besides we don't
really want to injure the pests. All ready? Then here we go!"

Randy did not answer, for hooking his heels through Kabumpo's harness,
he was already delving into the capacious pocket on the left side of
the Elegant Elephant's robe, discovering not only a club, but a quiver
full of darts. Jerking himself upright, the club in one hand, the darts
in the other, he peered aloft with growing anxiety as foot over foot
Kabumpo climbed up the granite slope. The faces of the Headmen were
round and deeply wrinkled from the hot winds blowing off the desert;
their ears, huge and fan-shaped, flapped like wings, and like wings
propelled them through the air. Before Kabumpo reached the top, a whole
bevy came whizzing toward them, screaming out indignant threats and
warnings.

"Off, be off!" they shouted hysterically. "Off with their arms, off
with their legs, off with their bodies! Halt! Stop! Begone, you
miserable creepy crawly creatures. You dare not set a foot on our
beautiful Headland."

"Oh, daren't we?" Kabumpo shook his trunk belligerently. "And who is to
stop us, pray?"

"I am," rasped the ugliest of the Headmen. Snatching a coil of wire
from a niche in the rocks with his teeth, the ugly little Mugly came
flapping toward them. Another of the Headmen hastened to seize the
opposite end of the wire in his teeth and, stretching it between them,
they came rushing on.

"Watch out!" warned Randy, dropping flat between Kabumpo's ears.
"They're going to trip you up."

"Wrong, how wrong," chattered all the Headmen, bobbing up and down like
balloons let off their strings. "They're going to cut off his body,"
confided one of the long-nosed tribesmen, zooming down to whisper this
information in Randy's ear. "The creature's head is welcome enough
and with those enormous ears he'll have no trouble flying, but his
body--oh, his body is awful and must stay behind. And your body, too,
you little monster, we'll cut that off too," promised the Headman
in his oily voice. "What use is a body, anyway? I see you have very
small ears, but they can be stretched. And just wait till you've been
debodicated, you'll feel so right and light and flighty."

"Help! Stop! Help! Help!" screamed Randy, as the ugly Mugly gave him a
playful nip on the ear. "Back up, Kabumpo, back down. They're going to
catch you in that wire and choke you."

"Pah! nonsense," panted the Elegant Elephant. And heaving himself up
over the last barrier, he stepped confidently out on the rocky plateau.

"Heads up! Heads up!" shrilled the Headmen, while the two with the
wire, deftly encircling Kabumpo's great neck, began to fly apart in
order to draw the noose tighter. Kabumpo ducked, but much too late,
and though his ferocious trumpeting sent swarms of Headmen fluttering
aloft, the two holding the wire stuck to their task, pulling and
jerking with all their teeth till Kabumpo's jeweled collar was pressing
uncomfortably into his throat.

"Don't worry," he grunted gamely, "their teeth will give way before my
neck does. Calm yourself, my boy, ca--alm your--self."

But how could Randy feel calm with his best friend in such a
predicament and already beginning to gasp for breath? Jumping up and
down on Kabumpo's back, he rattled his club valiantly, but the Headmen
were too high up for him to reach, and when at last he flung the
club with all his strength at the one on the left, it seemed to make
no impression at all on the hard head of the enemy. Redoubling his
efforts, he drew the wire tighter and tighter in his yellow teeth. In
desperation, Randy suddenly remembered the darts, and drawing one
from the quiver, sent it speeding upward. The first missed, but as the
Elegant Elephant began to sway and quiver beneath him, the second found
its mark, striking the Headman squarely in the middle of the forehead.
An expression of surprise and dismay overspread his wrinkled features,
and next instant, with a terrific yawn, he dropped the wire and fell
headlong to the rocks, where he rolled over and over and over.

"Great Goopers!" exclaimed Randy, hardly able to believe his luck.
"Why, he's not hurt at all, but has fallen asleep."

"Watch the others, the--others!" gulped Kabumpo, shaking his head
in an effort to free it from the wire. Already another had flown to
take his fallen comrade's place, but before he could snatch the wire,
Randy brought him to earth with one of his sharply pointed darts. The
next who ventured he shot down too, and as the rest of the band came
swarming down to see what was happening, Randy sent arrow after arrow
winging into their midst till the flat, smooth rock was dotted with
sleepy heads, for each one hit promptly fell asleep. Though his arm
ached and his heart thumped uncomfortably, Randy did not even pause
for breath till he had sent the last arrow into the air, and then quite
suddenly he realized he had won this strange and ridiculous battle.
More than half of the ear-men, as he could not help calling them to
himself, lay snoring on the ground; the rest with terrified shrieks and
whistles were flapping off as fast as their ears would carry them. Now
entirely free of the wire, but still trembling and gasping, Kabumpo
stared angrily after them.

"What I cannot understand," puffed Randy, sliding to the ground to
examine a group of the enemy, "is what put them to sleep? I thought
your darts might hurt or head them off or puncture them like balloons,
but instead--here they are asleep, and How asleep! Shall I pull out
the arrows? I might need them later."

"They're not MY arrows," Kabumpo said, wrinkling his forehead in
a puzzled frown. "I didn't have any arrows, but Ha, Ha, Kerumph!"
The Elegant Elephant began to shake all over. "They must be Gaper
Arrows--the Wakes must have stuck them in my pocket when they fetched
my robe and head-piece. Pretty cute of the little rascals, at that.
Why, these must be the same arrows the Winks shot at me, Randy, but my
hide was too tough for them and they didn't work."

"Well, they certainly made short work of the Headmen," said Randy,
turning one over gently with his foot. "Goodness! I thought you'd be
choked and done for, old fellow!"

"Who, ME? Nonsense! My neck would have broken their teeth in another
minute or two."

"Well, then, shall I pull out the arrows?" asked Randy, who had his own
opinion about Kabumpo's narrow escape. "We could use them again some
time."

"No, NO! Leave them in! So long as those arrows stick fast the little
villains will sleep fast and that's the only way I can stand 'em."

"But suppose the others fly back?" Randy still hesitated.

"Pooh! Don't you worry about that." Kabumpo raised his trunk
scornfully. "They're frightened out of their wits and probably half way
to the Sapphire City by this time. And when they do come back, we won't
be here."

"Won't we?" Dubiously Randy began to pace across the bare and arid
plateau. "I certainly don't think much of Headland, do you?"

"I wouldn't have it for a gift, even if they threw in a tusk brush and
diamond earrings besides!" snorted Kabumpo. "Why, it's nothing but a
humpy bumpy acre of rock without a tree, a house, a bird or even a
blade of grass. I'd give the whole country for a mouthful of hay or a
bucketful of water!"

"We might find a spring among the rocks," proposed Randy, hurrying
along hopefully.

"More likely a fall," predicted Kabumpo, trudging gloomily behind him.
But just then, Randy, who had vanished behind a sizable boulder, gave
an excited whoop.

"Hi, yi, Kabumpo! We're here! We're here, right on the edge of it!" he
shouted vociferously. "LOOK!" The Elegant Elephant, pushing round the
rock, did look, then, mopping his forehead with the tip of his robe,
sank heavily to his haunches and for a moment neither said a word. For,
truly enough, the jagged point of Headland projected over the desert
as a high cliff hangs over the sea. Below, the seething sand smoked,
churned and tumbled, sending up sulphurous waves of heat that made both
travelers cough and splutter.

"So, all we have to do is cross," gasped Randy, dashing the tears
brought by the smoke out of his eyes.

"And a simple thing that will be," grunted the Elegant Elephant
sarcastically, "seeing that one foot on the sand spells instant
destruction. If we could just flap our ears like the Headmen, we could
fly across."

"But as we can't," sighed Randy, seating himself despondently on a
boulder. "What are we to do?"

"Well, that remains to be seen," muttered Kabumpo, who had not the
faintest notion. "'Never cross a Deadly Desert on an empty stomach,' is
my motto, and I'm going to stick to it."

"Sticking to mottoes won't get us anywhere," Randy said, skimming a
stone off the edge and watching with a little shudder as it was sucked
down into the whirling sand. "Doesn't that desert make you thirsty?
Goopers, if I had a dipperful of water I'd gladly do without the
breakfast."

"Humph! looks as if you might have that wish." Feeling hurriedly in the
right pocket of his robe, Kabumpo dragged out a waterproof as large
as a tent. "Just spread this over me, will you?" he puffed anxiously.
"Storm coming. Hear that thunder? Storm coming."

"Coming?" cried Randy, springing up to help Kabumpo with the buckles.
"Why, it's here." He had to raise his voice to a scream to make himself
heard above the gale that, arising apparently from nowhere, struck them
furiously from behind. He had just fastened the last strap of the
waterproof to Kabumpo's left ankle when the rain swept down in perfect
torrents; rain, accompanied by hailstones as big as Easter eggs. There
was ample room for Randy beneath the Elegant Elephant, and standing
between his front legs the young monarch lifted the waterproof, and
reaching out caught a huge hailstone in his hand. Touching it against
his parched lips, Randy gave a sigh of content, then crunching it up
rapturously, stuck out his head and let the pelting downpour cool his
hot and dusty face.

"Wonder if this will put out the desert?" he mused, ducking back as a
terrible clap of thunder boomed like a cannon shot overhead. "SAY, it's
a lucky thing you're so big, Kabumpo," he called up cheerily, "or we'd
be blown away. Whee--listen to that wind, would you!"

"Have to do more than listen," howled the Elegant Elephant, bracing
his feet and lowering his head. "Ahoy! below--catch hold of something,
Randy! Help! Hi! Hold on! HOLD ON! For the love of blue--mountains!
Here we GO! Here we blow! Oooomph! Bloomph! Ker--AHHHHH!"

"Oh, no, Kabumpo! NO!" Leaping up, Randy caught the Elegant Elephant's
broad belt. "Put on--the brakes! Quick!" And Kabumpo did try making a
futile stand against the tearing wind. But the mighty gale, whistling
under his waterproof filled it up and out like a balloon, and with a
regular ferry-boat blast, Kabumpo rose into the air and zoomed like a
Zeppelin over the Deadly Desert, while Randy, hanging grimly to the
strap of his belt, banged to and fro like the clapper on a bell.




CHAPTER 6

The Other Side of the Desert


Remembering the deadly and destroying nature of the sands below, Randy
did not dare to look down. Besides, holding on took all his strength
and attention, for Kabumpo was borne like a leaf before the howling
gale, faster and faster and faster, till he and Randy were too dazed
and dizzy to know or care how far they had gone or where they were
blowing to. Which was perhaps just as well, for, as suddenly as it had
risen, the gale abated and, coasting down the last high hill of the
wind, saved from a serious crash only by his faithful tarpaulin, which
now acted as a parachute, Kabumpo came jolting to earth. With closed
eyes and trunk held stiffly before him, the Elegant Elephant remained
perfectly motionless awaiting destruction and wondering vaguely how
it would feel. He was convinced that they had come down on the desert
itself. Then, as no fierce blasts of heat assailed him, he ventured
to open one eye. Randy, shaken loose by the force of the landing, had
rolled to the ground a few feet away, and now, jumping to his feet,
cried joyously:

"Why, it's over, Kabumpo--over, and so are we! Ho! I never knew you
could fly, old Push-the-Foot."

"Neither did I," shuddered the Elegant Elephant, and jerking off the
waterproof he flung it as hard and as far as he could.

"Oh, don't do that!" Randy dashed away to pick it up. "That good old
coat saved our bacon and ballooned us across the desert as light as a
couple of daisies."

"But we're no better off on this side than on the other," grumbled
Kabumpo, surveying the barren countryside with positive hatred. "Not a
house, a field, a farm or a castle in sight."

"The idea was to get away from castles, wasn't it?" Randy grinned up
at his huge friend and, folding the waterproof into a neat packet,
tucked it back in its place.

"Well, there's one thing about castles," observed the Elegant Elephant,
giving his robe a quick tug here and there. "At least, the food's
regular. I could eat a royal dinner from soup to napkins."

"Give me a boost up that tree and I'll have a look around," proposed
Randy.

"Need a spy-glass to find anything worth looking at in this country,"
complained Kabumpo, lifting Randy into the fork of a gnarled old tree.
Shinning expertly up the rough trunk, Randy looked carefully in all
directions.

"We certainly cleared the desert by a nice margin," he called down
gaily. "It's at least a mile behind us, and toward the east I see a
cluster of white towers that might be a castle."

"And nothing between," mourned Kabumpo with a hungry swallow. "No
fields, orchards or melon patches?"

"There are fields, but they're too far away for me to see what's
growing, and there's a forest too. What country is this, Kabumpo? Do
you know?"

"Depends on how we blew," answered the Elegant Elephant, lifting Randy
out of the tree and tossing him lightly over his shoulder. "If we blew
straight from Headland, which is certainly the northwestern tip of the
Gilliken Country of Oz, we should be in No Land. If we blew slantwise,
this would be Ix."

"Then I hope we blew slantwise." Randy spread himself out luxuriantly
behind Kabumpo's ears. "For if we are in Ix, we have only one country
to cross before we reach Ev and Jinnicky's castle."

"And the sooner we start, the sooner we'll arrive," agreed Kabumpo,
swinging into motion. "But if I drop in my tracks, boy, don't be too
surprised. I'm hollow as a drum and weak as a violet."

"Too bad we're not like the Headmen," said Randy, who felt dreadfully
hollow himself. "Without a body, I suppose one does not feel hungry.
Wonder what became of them, anyway?"

"Who cares?" sniffed Kabumpo, picking his way crossly through the rocks
and brambles. "They probably blew about for a while, but with ears like
sails, what's a gale of wind or weather? Ho! what's that I see yonder,
a farmer?"

"No, just a hat stuck on a pole to scare away the crows," Randy told
him after a careful squint. "But nothing grows in the field but rocks,
so why do they bother?"

"Did you say a 'hat'?" Kabumpo's small eyes began to burn and twinkle,
and breaking into a run he was across the field like a flash.

"Kabumpo!" gasped Randy, as the Elegant Elephant snatched the hat from
the pole and took a huge bite from the brim. "Surely, surely you're not
going to eat that old hat?"

"Why not?" demanded the Elegant Elephant, cramming the rest of the hat
into his mouth and crunching it up with great gusto. "It's straw, isn't
it? A little old and tough, to be sure, but nourishing, and anyway
better than nothing!" Almost strangling on the crown, Kabumpo glanced
sharply across the field, then looked apologetically back at his young
rider. "Great Gooselberries," he muttered contritely, "I'm sorry as a
goat. Why, I never saved you even an edge!"

"Oh, never mind," choked Randy, holding his sides at the very idea of
such a thing. "Even if I were starving, I couldn't eat a hat. But look,
old Push-the-Foot, isn't that a barn showing over the top of that hill?"

"Barn!" wheezed Kabumpo, lifting his trunk joyfully. "Why, so it is!
Ho! This is something like!" And hiccoughing excitedly, from the
effects of the hat, no doubt, Kabumpo went galloping over the brow of
the little hill.

A pleasant valley dotted with small farms stretched out below. Randy
was relieved to note that its inhabitants were usual-looking beings
like himself. Children rode gleefully on wagons piled high with
hay. Farmers in wide-brimmed yellow hats, rather like those worn by
the Winkies in Oz, worked placidly in the fields. Everyone seemed
contented, calm and happy; that is, until Kabumpo, delighted to
find himself again in a land of plenty, came charging down the hill
trumpeting like a whole band of music.

"Oh, too bad, you've frightened them nearly out of their wits," mourned
Randy, hanging on to Kabumpo's collar to keep his balance as the
Elegant Elephant, forgetting his elegance, made a dash for the nearest
hayrick.

"Help Hi--stop! Now see what you've done!"

To tell the truth, the havoc ensuing was not all Kabumpo's fault. No
one in this tranquil valley of Ix had ever seen an elephant before, and
the sight of one rushing down upon them was so unnerving and strange
they fled in every direction, leaping into barns and houses, and
barring and double-barring the doors against this terrifying monster.
Horses hitched to their hay wagons cantered madly east and west,
and the air was filled with loud shrieks, neighs and the bellows of
stampeding cattle.

"Such dummies!" panted Kabumpo, coming to a complete standstill.
"Well," he gave a tremendous sniff, "if they don't want to meet a King,
a Prince and the most elegant elephant in Oz, what do we care? I've
invited myself to breakfast anyhow, and they can like it or Kabump it.
Just wait till I load away one stack of this hay, my boy, and I'll find
you a breakfast fit for a King and Traveler."

And the Elegant Elephant was good as his word. After tossing down
a great mound of new-mown hay, he swaggered over to the nearest
farmhouse. Pushing in the kitchen window with his trunk, he handed
up to Randy everything the little farmer's wife had on her kitchen
table--a bowl of milk, a pat of butter, a loaf of bread, a cold half
chicken and three hard-boiled eggs.

"Do control yourself, madam," he advised, as the palpitating little
lady flattened herself against the opposite wall. "These pearls will
more than pay for your provisions."

Afraid to touch the lovely chain Kabumpo placed on the table, the
little Ixey watched with round eyes as Kabumpo backed away.

"Ho, I guess that will give her something to tell her grandchildren!"
snorted the Elegant Elephant. Randy was too busy taking rapturous
bites, first of bread and then of chicken, to answer.

"Why is it that everything tastes so much better when you are
traveling?" he remarked a bit later, as he finished off the rest of the
chicken and put the bread, butter and eggs away for his lunch.

"'Cause we're hungrier, I suppose," smiled Kabumpo, crossing another
field, "and then, there's the novelty."

Recalling the straw hat with a little chuckle, Kabumpo winked back at
his young rider.

"But now that we've breakfasted I think we'd better be moving. I see
some of these farmers gathering up their courage and their pitchforks
and I'm too full to fight."

"Pooh! they couldn't hurt us," boasted Randy, stretching out
comfortably. "I rather wish they hadn't run off, though, I'd like to
ask them something about the country, and you know, Kabumpo--I've never
ridden on a hay wagon in all my life and I'd sorta like to try it."

"That's the worst of being a King," observed Kabumpo, walking carefully
around a brown calf. "You miss a lot of the common and ordinary
pleasures. Hmm--mmn, let's see, now, all the horses have run off, but
there's still a heap of hay about--so why shouldn't you have a ride?"

"Without any wagon?" inquired Randy, looking wistfully at the largest
of the haystacks.

"Why not?" puffed Kabumpo, and lifting Randy hurriedly down from his
back, he rushed at the hayrick, burrowing into it with tusk, feet and
trunk till he was in the exact center. Then heaving up with his back
and forward with his trunk, he pushed till his head stuck out the other
side. "Come ON!" he grunted triumphantly. "You'll not only have your
hay ride, but I'll have my lunch!"

Throwing Randy to the top of the load, the Elegant Elephant, looking
far from elegant, set off at a lumbersome gallop, carrying the haystack
right along with him. At sight of his prize hayrick apparently running
away by itself, the outraged owner stuck his head out of the window and
screamed. But that did not bother Kabumpo. The load was but a feather's
weight to him, and with the young King of Regalia dancing and yelling
on the top, he swept merrily through the startled valley.

Those at the lower end who had not seen Kabumpo arrive, now catching
sight of a load of hay moving off by itself, simply fell against fences
and barn doors, blinking and gulping with astonishment, too stunned and
shocked to return the gay greetings of the nonchalant young Gilliken
riding the load. Kabumpo, sampling stray wisps as he ran and peering
out comically from under the hay, enjoyed to the utmost the sensation
he was causing.

"Make a wish, my boy," he shouted exuberantly. "It's awfully lucky to
wish on the first load of hay."

"Then I wish we would reach the Red Jinn's castle before night,"
decided Randy. "And wouldn't Jinnicky laugh if he could see us now? Did
you leave a pearl for the hay, Kabumpo?"

"Certainly," retorted the elephant, speaking rather stuffily through
the haystack. "We're travelers, not thieves. Hi! what's ahead, my lad?
This load has shifted a bit over my left eye and I can scarcely see out
of my right."

"A dry river bed," called Randy, bouncing up and down with the keenest
enjoyment. "Go slow, old Push-the-Foot, or you'll lose your lunch."

"Not on your life!" puffed the Elegant Elephant. "I'll stop and eat it
first. Ho--"

    "Hay foot, straw foot, any foot will do,
    Down the bank and up the bank, and now, how is the view?"

"Elegant," breathed Randy, grinning to himself at Kabumpo's verses.
"More fields--meadows--forests, everything!"

"But even so, I smell sulphur!" Kabumpo moved his trunk slowly from
side to side. "Something's burning, my lad, and close at hand, too."

"Why, it's a HORSE!" Randy's voice cracked from the sheer shock of the
thing. "And coming straight for us, too. Wait! Stop! Hold on! No, maybe
you'd better run. Great Gillikens, it's smoking!"

"A pipe?" inquired Kabumpo, trying to see through the fringe of hay
that was obscuring his vision. "And what if it is? Am I, the Elegant
Elephant of Oz, to run from a mere and miserable equine?"

"But this horse," squealed Randy, sliding head first off the haystack,
"this horse is different. Oh, really, REALLY, Kabumpo, I think we'd
better run."

"Never!" Pushing the hay off his forehead with his trunk, Kabumpo
looked fiercely out, then, with a start that dislodged half the load,
he began backing off as rapidly as he could, dragging Randy along by
the tail of his coat.




CHAPTER 7

The Princess of Anuther Planet


Even so, Kabumpo was not fast enough, and as the immense black charger
with its tail and mane curling like smoke, its fiery nostrils flashing
flames a foot long, came galloping upon them, Randy flung himself face
down on the ground to escape its burning breath. The most terrifying
thing about the black steed was the complete silentness of its coming.
Its metal-shod feet struck the earth without making a sound, giving
Kabumpo such a sense of unreality he could not believe it was true, nor
move another step. In consequence, as the enormous animal swirled to
a halt before him, a dozen darting flames from its nostrils set fire to
the load of hay on his back, enveloping him in a hot and exceedingly
dangerous bonfire.

Now thoroughly aroused, Kabumpo leapt this way and that, and Randy,
unmindful of his own danger, jumped up and tried to beat out the
fire with his cloak. But the hay blazed and crackled and the Elegant
Elephant would certainly have been roasted like a potato, had he not
reared up on his hind legs and let the whole burning burden slide
from his back. Scorched and infuriated, his royal robes burned and
blackened, Kabumpo backed into a handy brook and sat down, from which
position he glared with positive hatred at his prancing adversary. But
a complete change had come over this strange and unbelievable steed;
his nostrils no longer spurted flames and as Randy plumped down beside
Kabumpo, deciding this was the safest spot for both of them, the lordly
creature dropped to its knees and touched its forehead three times to
the earth.

"Away, away! You big meddlesome menace!" panted the Elegant Elephant,
throwing up his trunk. "Begone, you good-for-nothing hay burner!"

"But, Kabumpo," pleaded Randy, as the horse, paying no attention to the
Elegant Elephant's angry screeches, began throwing little puffs of red
smoke into the air, "he's trying to give us a message. LOOK!"

"Hail and salutations!" The words floated out smoothly and ranged
themselves in a neat line. "I hereby acknowledge you as my master! I
can flash fire from the eye, the nose and the mouth; but you--you flash
fire from the whole body! Hail and salutations from Thun, the Thunder
Colt. Yonder rests my Mistress Planetty, Princess of Anuther Planet!
Who are you, great-and-much-to-be-envied spurter of fire?"

"Sky writing!" gasped Randy. "Oh, Kabumpo, how're we going to
answer? He did not hear your scolding. I don't believe he can hear
at all. Fire spurter! Ho, ho! And HOW are you going to keep up that
reputation?"

"I'm not!" grunted Kabumpo, but in a much less savage voice, for he was
almost completely won over by the Thunder Colt's flattery. "Hmmm-hhh,
let me see, now, couldn't we signal to the silly brute? There he stands
looking up in the air for an answer."

"Well," Randy said, "with your trunk and my arms we could form any
number of letters, so--"

"This is Kabumpo, Elegant Elephant of Oz. I am Randy, King of Regalia."

With infinite pains and patience the two spelled out the message.
Puzzled at first, then seeming to understand, Thun's clear yellow eyes
snapped and twinkled with interest. Tossing his smoky mane, he puffed a
single word into the air. "Come!" Then away he flashed at his noiseless
gallop.

"Shall we?" cried Randy, jumping out of the creek, for he was curious
to know more about the Thunder Colt and to meet the Princess of Anuther
Planet. "Are you cooled off? Did the water put you out?"

"Oh, I'm put out all right," grumbled Kabumpo, lurching up the bank.
"Very put out and in splendid shape to meet a Princess, I must say."

"Come on, you don't look so bad," urged Randy, tugging impatiently at
his tusk, while Kabumpo himself endeavored to wring the water out of
his robe with his trunk. "Even without any trappings or jewels at all,
you'd stand out in any company. There's nobody bigger or handsomer than
you, Kabumpo! Know it?"

"HAH!" The Elegant Elephant let go his robe and gave Randy a quick
embrace. "Then what are we waiting for, little Braggerwagger?"

Tossing the young monarch lightly over his shoulder, the Elegant
Elephant started after the Thunder Colt, moving almost as smoothly and
silently as Thun himself. Without one look behind, Thun had disappeared
into a green forest, and how cool and delicious it seemed to Randy
and Kabumpo after the dry desert lands they had been traversing.
Flashing in and out between the tall trees, the Thunder Colt led them
to an ancient oak, set by itself in a little clearing. Here, leaning
thoughtfully against the bole of the tree, stood the little Princess of
Anuther Planet.

Kabumpo, recognizing royalty at once when he saw it, lifted his trunk
in a grave and dignified salute. Randy bowed, but in such a daze of
surprise and admiration he scarcely knew he was bowing. The small
figure under the oak was strange and beautiful beyond description,
giving an impression both of strength and delicacy. Planetty was
fashioned of tiny meshed links, fine as the chain mail worn by medieval
knights, of a metal that resembled silver, but which at the same time
was iridescent and sparkling as glass. Yet the Princess of Anuther
Planet was live and soft as Randy's own flesh-and-bone self. Her eyes
were clear and yellow like Thun's; her hair, a cascade of gossamer
net, sprayed out over her shoulders and fell half-way to her feet.
Planetty's garments, trim and shaped to her figure, were of some
veil-like net, and, floating from her shoulders, was a cloak of larger
meshed metal thread almost like a fisherman's net.

"Highnesses, Highness! Oh, very high Highnesses!" Prancing lightly
before her, Thun puffed his announcement importantly into the air.
"Here you see Kabumpty, Nelegant Nelephant of Noz, and Sandy, King of
Segalia."

"Oh, my goodness! He has us all mixed up," worried Randy in a whispered
aside to Kabumpo, whose ears had gone straight back at the dreadful
name Thun had fastened upon him.

"Never mind, I too am mixed up. Everything down here is too perfectly
lettling."

"Oh, you can speak?" Leaning forward, Randy gazed delightedly down at
the little metal maiden. He had been afraid at first she would use the
same sky-writing talk as Thun.

"But surely," smiled Planetty, each word striking the air with the
distinctness of a silver bell, so that Randy was almost as interested
in the tune as in the sense. "Only the creature folk on Anuther Planet
are without power of speech or sound making. They must go soft and
silently. That is the lenith law."

"And a good law, too," observed Kabumpo, looking resentfully up at the
Thunder Colt's fading message. "Permit me to introduce myself again.
Your Highness, I am Kabumpo, Elegant Elephant of Oz, and this is Randy,
King of Regalia, which is also in Oz."

"Oz?" marveled Planetty, lifting her spear-like silver staff, whose
tip, ending in three metal links, fascinated Randy. "Is this, then,
the Planet of Oz? And what are those, and these, and this?" In rapid
succession the little Princess touched a cluster of violets growing
round the base of the oak, a moss-covered rock and the tall tree itself.

"Why, flowers, rocks and a tree," laughed Randy. "Surely you must have
flowers, trees and rocks on Anuther Planet."

"No, no, nothing like this--all these colors and shapes. Everything on
my planet is flat and greyling." The metal maiden raised her hands, as
she searched for the right words to explain Anuther Planet. "It is all
so different with us," she confessed, dropping her arms to her side.
"Yonder, we have zonitors; not trees, but tall shafts of metal to which
we fasten our nets when we sleep or rest. Underfoot we have network of
various sizes and thicknesses with here and there sprays of vanadium.
In our vanadium springs we freshen and renew ourselves, and without
them we stiffen and cease to move."

With one finger pressed to his forehead, Randy tried to visualize
Planetty's strange greyling world, but Kabumpo, ever more practical,
inquired sharply:

"And how often must you refresh and renew yourselves, Princess?"

"Every sonestor in the earling," answered the Princess with a bright
nod.

Thun, tiring of a conversation he could not hear, had cantered off to
investigate a rabbit, and Randy, sliding to the ground, came over to
stand nearer to this strange little Princess.

"Kabumpo and I do not understand all those words," he told her gently.
"'Sonestor--earling'--what do they mean?"

"Why, a sonestor," trilled Planetty, throwing back her head and showing
all of her tiny silver teeth, "is one dark, one light, one dark, one
light, one dark, one light, one dark, one light, one dark, one light,
one dark, one light, one dark, one light, and earling is when you waken
from ret."

"Help!" shuddered Kabumpo shaking his ears as if he had a bee in them.

"I know what she means," crowed Randy, snapping his fingers gleefully.
"A sonestor on Anuther Planet is the same as a week here; all those
lights and darks are days, and earling is the morning and ret is rest!"

"Then, do you realize," worried Kabumpo, as Planetty looked
questioningly from one to the other, "that if this little lady and her
colt are separated from their vanadium springs for a week, they will
become stiff, motionless statues? And that--" the Elegant Elephant
looked the pretty little Princess first up and then down. "That would
be a great pity! We must help them back to Anuther Planet as soon as we
can, my boy."

"Yes, yes, that is what you must do," Planetty clapped her small
silvery hands and blew a kiss to the elephant. "If Thun had just not
jumped on that thunderbolt!"

"Jumped on a thunderbolt, did he?" A reluctant admiration crept into
Kabumpo's voice. The Princess nodded so emphatically her long, lovely
hair danced and shimmered round her face like a cloud shot with
starlight.

"You see," she went on gravely, "we were on our way to a zorodell."
Kabumpo and Randy exchanged startled glances, but, realizing there
would be many odd words in Planetty's language, did not interrupt her.
"And half-way there," continued Planetty calmly, "a dreadful storm
overtook us. A bright flash of lightning frightened Thun, and though
I signaled for him to stop, he sprang right up on a huge glowing
thunderbolt that had fallen across the netway, and it fell and fell and
fell--bringing us to where we now are."

"Well, that's one way of going places," commented Kabumpo, swinging his
trunk from side to side.

"But how can we find Anuther Planet when none of us fly?" demanded
Randy anxiously. "It must be miles above this country, for think how
fast and far thunderbolts fall when they fall."

"Now you've forgotten the Red Jinn," boomed Kabumpo, winking meaningly
at the young King, for at Randy's words the little Princess had covered
her face with her hands and three yellow jewels had trickled through
her fingers. "Jinnicky can help Planetty and Thun go any place they
wish," insisted Kabumpo in his loud challenging bass. "Come, Princess,
summon your fire-breathing steed, and we will travel on to the most
powerful wizard in Ev."

"Ev? Wizard? Oh, how gay it all sounds." Planetty's voice rang out
merrily as Christmas bells. With a lively skip she tapped her staff
three times on the ground, and Thun, though out of sight, came
instantly bounding back to his little mistress. Vaulting easily upon
his back, the Princess of Anuther Planet lifted her staff, and Kabumpo,
picking up Randy, started away like a whole conquering army.




CHAPTER 8

On to Ev


"Is there any way you can signal to your mount to trot ahead?" inquired
Kabumpo, looking down sideways at the Thunder Colt, whose breath was
blowing hot and uncomfortable against his side. "Let Thun be the
vanguard," he suggested craftily. "When I trumpet once, turn him left;
at two, turn right; at three, he must halt."

"Oh, fine," approved Planetty, tapping out the message with her heel on
the Thunder Colt's flank. "That will be simply delishicus."

Thun evidently agreed with her, for, tossing his smoky mane, he
cantered to a position just ahead of the Elegant Elephant, at which
Kabumpo heaved a huge sigh of relief. He did not wish to hurt Thun's
feelings, neither did he wish to catch fire again.

"Here travel Thun, the Thunder Colt, Planetty, Princess of Anuther
Planet; Kabumpty of Noz; and Slandy, King of Segalia! Give way, all ye
comers and goers, and arouse me not, for I am a seething mass of molten
metal!"

"Is he really?" marveled Randy, gazing up at the fiery message floating
like a banner over their heads. Planetty nodded absently, her interest
so taken up with the wild flowers below, the blue sky above, and the
wide-armed, lacy-leafed trees of this ancient forest she could not bear
to turn her head for fear of missing something. On her own far-away
metal planet, skies were grey and leaden, and the various levels of
slate and silver strata arranged in stiff and net-like patterns. The
gay colors of this bright new world simply delighted her, and Randy and
Kabumpo she considered beings of rare and singular beauty. The word
she used to herself when she thought of them was "netiful," which is
Anuther way of saying beautiful.

"A wonder that high-talking Thomas couldn't get a name straight once
in a while!" complained Kabumpo out of one corner of his mouth, as
Thun's sentence spiraled away in thin pink smoke.

"Oh, what difference does it make?" laughed Randy. "I think 'Kabumpty'
is real cute."

"CUTE!" raged the Elegant Elephant with such a fierce blast Planetty
promptly turned Thun to the left.

"Now see what you've done," snickered Randy, giving Kabumpo's ear a
mischievous tweak. "They think you want them to go left."

"As a matter of fact, I do," snapped Kabumpo grumpily. "We must go east
through Ix and then north to Ev."

"Puzzling and more puzzling," murmured Planetty, looking round at the
Elegant Elephant. "Where are all these curious places, Bumpo dear? I
thought all the time we were in Noz. Did you not tell us you were the
Big Bumpo of Noz?"

Randy peered rather anxiously over Kabumpo's ear to see how he was
taking this second nickname, but he need not have worried. The "dear
Bumpo," spoken in the metal maid's ringing tones, fell like a charm
on Kabumpo's ruffled feelings. And, fairly oozing complacency and
importance, he began to explain his own and Randy's real names and
countries, hoping Planetty would straighten them out in her own head,
if not in Thun's.

"You are right," he started off sonorously. "Randy and I both live in
the Land of Oz, a great oblong country entirely surrounded by a desert
of burning sand. But in Oz there are many, many Kingdoms: first of all,
the four large realms, the Gilliken Country of the North, the Quadling
Country of the South, the Empire of the Winkies in the East, and the
Land of the Munchkins in the West. Each of these Kingdoms has its own
sovereign; but all are under the supreme rule of Ozma, a fairy Princess
as lovely as your own small self, and Ozma lives in an Emerald City in
the exact center of Oz."

Kabumpo paused impressively while Planetty's eyes twinkled merrily at
his delicate flattery. "Now Randy and I hail from the north Gilliken
Country of Oz," proceeded the Elegant Elephant, moving along as he
spoke in a grand and leisurely manner. "I come from the Kingdom of
Pumperdink, and Randy from the Regal little realm of Regalia. Only
yesterday I arrived in Regalia to visit Randy, and we are now on our
way to the castle of the Red Jinn, as I think I told you before. If we
were in Oz, my dear--" Kabumpo rather lingered over the "dear"--"Ozma
and her clever assistant, the Wizard of Oz, would quickly transport you
to Anuther Planet with the magic belt. But, you see, we are not in Oz,
for the same storm that overtook you and Thun overtook us, and hurled
us across the Deadly Desert to this Kingdom of Ix, where we all now
find ourselves. Fortunately, too, for otherwise we might never have met
a Princess from Anuther Planet."

The little Princess nodded in bright agreement.

"So--" continued Kabumpo, picking a huge tiger-lily and holding it out
to her, "as it is too difficult to travel back to the Emerald City of
Oz, we will take you with us to the Wizard of Ev, whose castle is on
the Nonestic Ocean in the country adjoining Ix."

"And a wizard is what?" Planetty turned almost completely round on her
black charger, smiling teasingly over the tiger-lily at Kabumpo.

"Why, a wizard--er--a wizard--" The Elegant Elephant fumbled a bit
trying to find the right words to explain.

"A wizard is a person who can do by magic what other people cannot do
at all," finished Randy neatly.

"Magic?" Planetty still looked puzzled.

"Oh, never mind all the words," comforted Kabumpo, flapping his ears
good naturedly, "you'll soon see for yourself what they all mean, and
I'm sure Jinnicky will be charmed to do his best tricks for you and
send you back in fine and proper style to your own planet."

"Yes, Jinnicky can do almost anything," boasted Randy, taking off his
crown and setting it back very much atilt, "and he's good fun too.
You'll like Jinnicky."

"As much as Big Bumpo?" Planetty rolled her soft eyes fondly back at
the Elegant Elephant, and Randy, feeling an unaccountable twinge of
jealousy, wished she would look at him that way.

"Oh, maybe not so much as Kabumpo; of course, there's nobody like
HIM--but pretty much as much," declared the young King loyally.

"But I like everything down here," decided Planetty, leaning forward to
tickle Thun's ear with the lily. "It's all so nite and netiful."

"So now we know what we are," whispered Randy under his breath
to Kabumpo. "And wait till Jinnicky sees us traveling with a
fire-breathing Thunder Colt and the Princess of Anuther Planet. Oh,
don't we meet important people on our journeys, Kabumpo?"

"Well, don't they meet US?" murmured the Elegant Elephant, increasing
his speed a little to keep up with Thun. "Though I wouldn't call this
colt important myself. How is he any better than an ordinary horse? His
breath is hot and dangerous, and it's not much fun traveling with a
deaf and dumb brute who burns everything he breathes on."

"Oh, he's not so dumb," observed Randy. "Look at the way he leaped over
that fallen log just now, and think how useful he'll be at night to
blaze a trail and light the camp fires."

"Hadn't thought of that," admitted Kabumpo grudgingly. "I guess he
would show up pretty well in the dark, and I suppose that does make him
trail blazer and lighter of the fires for this particular expedition.
Ho, HO! KERUMPH! And between you and me and the desert, this expedition
had better move pretty fast and not stop for sightseeing. Suppose these
two Nuthers had that vanadium shower at the beginning of the week
instead of the middle, that would give them only about two more days to
go? Great Goosefeathers! I'd hate to have 'em stiffen up on us half-way
to Jinnicky's. I might carry the Princess, but what would we do with
the colt?"

"Let's not even think of it," begged Randy with a little shudder.
"Great Goopers! Kabumpo, I hope Jinnicky will be at home and his magic
in good working order and powerful enough to send them back or keep
them here if they decide to stay."

"If they decide to stay?" Kabumpo looked sharply back at his young
rider. "Why should they?"

"Well, Planetty said she liked it down here, you heard her yourself
a moment ago, and I thought maybe--" Randy's face grew rosy with
embarrassment.

"Ha, Ha! So that's the way the wind lies!" Kabumpo chuckled
soundlessly. "Well, I wouldn't count on it, my lad," he called up
softly. "She probably has some nite Planetty Prince waiting for her up
yonder, and will fly away without so much as a backward glance. And as
for Jinnicky being at home--why shouldn't he be at home? And as for his
magic not being powerful enough--why shouldn't it be powerful enough?
He was in fine shape and form when I saw him in the Emerald City three
years ago. By the way, why weren't you at that grand celebration? I
understood Ozma invited all the Rulers of the Realm."

"Uncle Hoochafoo did not want me to leave," sighed Randy. "He thinks a
King's place is in his castle."

"I wonder what he thinks now?" said Kabumpo, trumpeting three times,
for Thun was racing along too far ahead of them.

"Probably has all the wise men and guards running in circles to find
me," giggled Randy, immediately restored to good humor. "And say, when
I do get back, old Push-the-Foot, I'M going to be KING and everything
will be very different and gay. Yes, there'll be a lot of changes in
Regalia," he decided, shaking his head positively. "Why, all those dull
receptions and reviewings would tire a visitor to tears."

"Ho, Ho! So you're still expecting her to visit you?" Waving his
trunk, Kabumpo called out in a louder voice. "Not so fast there,
Princess; hold Thun back a bit. We might run into danger and we should
all keep together on a journey. Besides," Kabumpo cleared his throat
apologetically, "Randy and I must stop for a bite to eat."

Planetty's eyes widened, as they always did at strange words and
customs, but she tugged obediently at Thun's mane and the Thunder
Colt came to an instant halt. Randy himself tried to coax the little
Princess to eat something, but she was so upset and puzzled by the
idea, he finally desisted and tried to share his bread and eggs with
Kabumpo. But the Elegant Elephant generously refused a morsel, knowing
Randy had little enough for himself, and lunched as best he could from
the shoots of young trees and saplings. Thun was so interested when
Kabumpo quenched his thirst at a small spring that he too thrust his
head into the bubbling waters, but withdrew it instantly and with such
an expression of pain and distress Randy concluded that water hurt the
Thunder Colt as much as fire hurt them. He was quite worried till the
flames began to spurt from Thun's nostrils, for he was afraid the water
might have put out Thun's fire and hastened the time when he should
lose all power of life and motion.

"Do you do this often?" inquired Planetty, as Randy tucked what was
left into one of Kabumpo's small pockets.

"Eat?" Randy laughed in spite of himself. "Oh, about three times a
day--or light," he corrected himself hastily, remembering Planetty had
so designated the daytime. "I suppose that vanadium spray or shower
keeps you and Thun going, the way food does Kabumpo and me?"

Planetty nodded dreamily, then, seeing Kabumpo was ready to start, she
tapped Thun with her silver heels and away streaked the Thunder Colt,
Kabumpo swinging along at a grand gallop behind him.

"Strange we have not passed any woodsmen's huts, nor seen any wild
animals," called Randy, jamming his crown down a little tighter to
keep it from sailing off. "Hi! Watch out, there old Push-a-Foot!
There's a wall ahead stretching away on all sides and going up higher
than higher. What's a wall doing in a forest? Perhaps it shuts in the
private shooting preserve of Queen Zixie herself. Say--ay--I'd like to
meet the Queen of this country, wouldn't you?"

"No time, no time," puffed the Elegant Elephant, giving three short
trumpets to warn Planetty to halt Thun. "Great Grump! whoever built
this wall wanted to shut out everything, even the sky. Can't even get a
squint of the top, can you?"

"Is this the great Kingdom of Ev?" asked Planetty, who had pulled Thun
up short and was looking at the wooden wall with lively interest.

"No, no, we're not nearly to Ev." The Elegant Elephant shook his head
impatiently. "Back of this wall lives someone who dotes on privacy, I
take it, or why should he shut himself in and everyone else out? Now,
then, shall we cruise round or knock a hole in the wood? I don't see
any door, do you, Randy?"

"No, I don't." Standing on the elephant's back, Randy examined the
wall with great care. "Why, it goes for miles," he groaned dolefully.
"Miles!"

"Then we'll just bump through." Backing off, Kabumpo lowered his head
and was about to lunge forward when Randy gave his ear a sharp tweak.

"Look!" he directed breathlessly. "Look!" While they had been talking,
Thun had been sniffing curiously at the wooden wall and now a whole
round section of it was blazing merrily. "Hurray! He's burned a hole
big enough for us all to go through," yelled the young King gleefully.
"Come ON!"

Vexed to think the Thunder Colt had solved the difficulty so easily,
and worried lest the whole wall should catch fire, Kabumpo signaled
for Planetty to precede him. But he need not have worried about Thun's
firing the wall. The Thunder Colt had burned as neat a hole in the
boards as a cigarette burns in paper, and while the edges glowed a bit,
they soon smouldered out, leaving a huge circular opening. So, without
further delay, Kabumpo stepped through, only to find himself facing the
most curious company he had seen in the whole course of his travels.




CHAPTER 9

The Box Wood


"Why! Why, they're all in boxes!" breathed Randy, as a group with
upraised and boxed fists advanced upon the newcomers.

"Chillywalla! Chillywalla!" yelled the Boxers, their voices coming
muffled and strange through the hat-boxes they wore on their heads.

"Chillywalla, Chillywalla, Chillywalla!" echoed Planetty, waving
cheerfully at the oncoming host.

"Shh-hh, pss-st, Princess, that may be a war cry," warned Randy,
drawing his sword and swinging it so swiftly round his head it
whistled. Thun, too astonished to move a step, stood with lowered
head, his flaming breath darting harmlessly into the moist floor of the
forest.

"Chillywalla! Chillywalla! Chillywalla!" roared the Boxers, keeping a
safe distance from Kabumpo's lashing trunk. "Chillywalla! CHILLYWALLA!"
Their voices rose loud and imploring. As Randy slid off the Elegant
Elephant's back to place himself beside Planetty, a perfectly enormous
Boxer came clumping out of the Box Wood to the left.

"Yes! Yes?" he grunted, holding on his hat-box as he ran. When he
caught sight of the travelers, he stopped short, and, not satisfied
with peering through the eyeholes in his hat-box, took it off
altogether and stood staring at them, his square eyes almost popping
from his square head. "Box their ears, box their ears! Box their heads
and arms and rears! Box their legs, their hands and chests, box that
fire plug 'fore all the rest! An IRON box!" screamed Chillywalla, as
Thun, with a soundless snort, sent a shower of sparks into a candy
box bush, toasting all the marshmallows in the boxes. "Oh, aren't you
afraid to go about in this barebacked, barefaced, unboxed condition?"
he panted, "exposed to the awful dangers of the raw outer air?"

Chillywalla hastily clapped on his hat box, but not before Randy
noticed that his ears were nicely boxed, too. Without waiting for an
answer to his question, the Boxer, with one shove of his enormous boxed
fist, pushed Thun under a Box Tree. Planetty had just time to leap
from his back when Chillywalla shook a huge iron box loose and it came
clanking down over the Thunder Colt. It was open at the bottom, and
Thun, kicking and rearing underneath, jerked it east and west.

"He'll soon grow used to it," muttered Chillywalla, jabbing a dozen
holes in the metal with a sharp pick he had drawn from a pocket in his
box coat. "Now, then, who's next? Ah! What a lovely lady!" Chillywalla
gazed rapturously at the Princess from Anuther Planet, then clapping
his hands, called sharply: "Bring the jewel boxes for her ears, flower
boxes for herself, a bonnet box for her head, candy boxes for her
hands, slipper boxes for those tiny silver feet. Bring stocking boxes,
glove boxes, and hurry! HURRY!"

"Oh, PLEASE!" Randy put himself firmly between Planetty and the
determined Chillywalla. "The outer air does not hurt us at all, Mister
Chillywalla; in fact, we like it!"

"Just try to find a box big enough for me!" invited Kabumpo, snatching
up the little Princess and setting her high on his shoulder.

"I think I have a packing box that would just fit," mused the Chief
Boxer, folding his arms and looking sideways at the Elegant Elephant.

"Pack him up, pack him off, send him packing!" chattered the other
Boxers, who had never seen anything like Kabumpo in their lives and
distrusted him highly. But Chillywalla himself was quite interested in
his singular visitors and inclined to be more than friendly.

"Better try our boxes," he urged seriously, as he took the pile of
bright cardboard containers an assistant had brought him. "Without
bragging, I can say that they are the best boxes grown--stylish, nicely
fitting and decidedly comfortable to wear."

"Ha, ha!" rumbled Kabumpo, rocking backward and forward at the very
idea. "Mean to tell me you wear boxes over your other clothes and
everywhere you go?"

"Certainly." Chillywalla nodded vigorously. "Do you suppose we want to
stand around and disintegrate? What happens to articles after they are
taken out of their boxes?" he demanded argumentatively. "Tell me that."

"Why," said Randy, thoughtfully, "they're worn, or sold, or eaten, or
spoiled--"

"Exactly." Chillywalla snapped him up quickly. "They are worn out;
they lose their freshness and their newness. Well, we intend to save
ourselves from such a fate, and we do," he added complacently.

"You're certainly fresh enough," chuckled Kabumpo with a wink at Randy.

"But might not these boxes be fun to wear?" inquired Planetty, looking
rather wistfully at the bright heap the Boxer Chief had intended for
her.

"No, No and NO!" rumbled Kabumpo positively. "No boxes!"

"As you wish." Chillywalla shrugged his shoulders under his cardboard
clothes box. "Shall I unbox the horse?"

"Better not," decided Randy, looking anxiously at the sparks issuing
from the punctures in Thun's box. "But perhaps you would show us the
way through this--this--"

"Box Wood," finished Chillywalla. "Yes, I will be most honored to
conduct you through our forest. And you may pick as many boxes as you
wish, too," he added generously. "I'd like to do something for people
who are so soon to spoil and wither."

"Ha, ha! Now, I'm sure that's very kind of you," roared Kabumpo, wiping
his eyes on the fringe of his robe. "And I think it best we hurry
along, my good fellow. Ho, whither away? It would never do to have a
spoiled King and Princess and a bad horse and elephant on your hands."

"Oh, if you'd ONLY wear our boxes!" begged Chillywalla, almost ready
to cry at the prospect of his visitors spoiling on the premises. Then
as Kabumpo shook his head again, the Big Boxer started off at a rapid
shuffle, anxious to have them out of the woods as soon as possible.
Thun, during all this conversation, had been kicking and bucking under
his iron box, but now Planetty tapped out a reassuring message with
her staff and the Thunder Colt quieted down. On the whole, he behaved
rather well, following the signals his little mistress tapped out, and
pushing the iron box along without too much discomfort or complaint,
though occasional indignant and fiery protests came puffing out of his
iron container.

Randy considered the journey through the Box Wood one of their gayest
and most entertaining adventures. The woodmen, in their brightly
decorated boxes, shuffled cheerfully along beside them, stopping now
and then to point with pride to their square box-like dwellings set at
regular intervals under the spreading boxwood trees. The whole forest
was covered by an enormous wooden box that shut out the sky and gave
everything an artificial and unreal look. It was in one side of this
monster box that Thun had burned the hole to admit them. Randy and
Planetty, riding sociably together on Kabumpo's back, picked boxes
from branches of all the trees they could reach, and it was such fun
and so exciting they paid scarcely any attention to the remarks of
Chillywalla. Even the Elegant Elephant snapped off a box or two and
handed them back to his royal riders.

"Oh, look!" exulted Randy, opening a bright blue cardboard box. "This
is just full of chocolate candy."

"Oh, throw that trash away," advised Chillywalla contemptuously.
"We think nothing of the stuff that grows inside, it's the boxes
themselves we are after."

"But this candy is good," objected Randy after sampling several pieces.
"And mind you, Kabumpo, Planetty has just picked a jewel box full of
real chains, rings and bracelets."

"Oh, they are netiful, netiful," crooned the Princess of Anuther
Planet, hugging the velvet jewel box to her breast.

"Keep them if you wish," sniffed Chillywalla, "but they're just rubbish
to us. When we pick boxes we toss the contents away."

"Now, that's plain foolishness," snorted Kabumpo, aghast at such a
waste, as Randy picked a pencil box full of neatly sharpened pencils
and Planetty a tidy sewing kit fitted out with scissors, needles and
spools of thread. The thimble was not quite ripe, but as Planetty had
never stitched a stitch in her royal life, she did not notice nor care
about that. Indeed, before they came to the other side of the Box
Wood, she and Randy were sitting in the midst of a high heap of their
treasures, and Kabumpo looked as if he were making a lengthy safari,
loaded up and down for the journey.

Randy had stuffed most of the boxes into big net bags Kabumpo always
brought along for emergencies, and these he tied to the Elegant
Elephant's harness. There were bread boxes packed with tiny loaves
and biscuits, cake boxes stuffed with sugar buns and cookies, stamp
boxes, flower boxes, glove boxes, coat and suit boxes. Last of all,
Randy picked a Band Box and it played such gay tunes when he lifted
the lid, Planetty clapped her silver hands, and even Kabumpo began to
hum under his breath. Traveling through the Box Wood with kind-hearted
Chillywalla was more like a surprise party than anything else. To
Planetty it was all so delightful, she began to wonder how she had ever
been satisfied with her life on Anuther Planet.

"Are all the countries down here as different and happy as this?" she
asked, fingering the necklace she had taken from the jewel box. "All
our countries are greyling and sad. No birds sing, no flowers grow, and
people are all the same."

"Oh, just wait till you've been to OZ," exclaimed Randy, shutting
the band box so he could talk better. "Oz countries are even more
surprising than this, and wait till you've seen Ev and Jinnicky's Red
Glass Castle!"

"You'll never reach it," predicted Chillywalla, shaking his hat box
gloomily. "You'll spoil in a few hours now, especially the big one,
loaded down with all that stuff and rubbish. Throw it away," he begged
again, looking so sorrowful Randy was afraid he was going to burst out
crying. "Toss out that rubbish and wear our boxes before it is too
late!"

"Rubbish!" Randy shook his finger reprovingly at the Boxer. "Why, all
these things are terribly nice and useful. If we go through enemy
countries, we can placate the natives with cakes and cigars, and if
we go through friendly countries, we'll use the suits and flowers
and candy for gifts. Really, you've been a great help to us, Mr.
Chillywalla, and if you ever come to Regalia, you may have anything in
my castle you wish!"

"Are there any boxes in your castle?" Chillywalla peered up at Randy
through the slits in his hat box.

"Not many," admitted Randy truthfully. "You see, in my country we keep
the contents and throw the boxes away."

"Throw the boxes away!" gasped Chillywalla, jumping three times into
the air. "Oh, you rogues! You rascals! You--YOU BOXIBALS! Lefters!
Righters! Boxers all! Here! Here at once! Have at these Box-destroying
savages!"

"Now see what you've done," mourned Kabumpo, as hundreds of the Boxers,
heeding Chillywalla's call, darted out of their dwellings and came
leaping from behind the box bushes and trees. "You've started a war!
That's what!"

"Box them! Box them good!" shrieked Chillywalla, raining harmless
blows on Kabumpo's trunk with his boxed fists. A hundred more boxed
both Thun and the Elegant Elephant from the rear, and so loud and angry
were their cries Planetty covered her ears.

"Too bad we have to leave when everything was so pleasant," wheezed
Kabumpo. "But never mind, here's the other side of the Box Wood.
Flatten out, youngsters, and I'll bump through."

And bump through he did, with such a splintering of boards it sounded
like an explosion of cannon crackers. Thun, at three taps from
Planetty, bumped after him, and before the Boxers realized what was
happening they were far away from there.

"I'll soon have that box off you!" panted Kabumpo. And putting his
trunk under Thun's iron box, he heaved it up in short order, screaming
shrilly as he did, for the Thunder Colt's breath had made the metal
uncomfortably hot.

"I thank you, great and mighty Master!" Thun sent the words up in a
perfect shower of sparks. "Let us begone from these noxious boxers."

"Oh, they're not so bad," mused Randy, as Planetty signaled for Thun to
go left. "Just peculiar. Imagine keeping the boxes and throwing away
all the lovely things inside. And imagine a country where everything
grows in boxes!" he added, standing up to wave at Chillywalla and his
square-headed comrades, who were looking angrily through the break in
the side of their wall.

"Good-bye!" he called clearly. "Good-bye, Chillywalla, and thanks for
the presents!"

"Boxibals!" hissed the Boxer Chief and his men, shaking their fists
furiously at the departing visitors.

"And that makes us no better than cannibals, I suppose," grunted
Kabumpo, looking rather wearily at the stretch of forest ahead. He had
rather hoped to find himself in open country.




CHAPTER 10

Night in the Forest


All afternoon the four travelers moved through the Ixian forest,
Planetty exclaiming over the flowers, ferns and bright birds that
flitted from tree to tree, Thun sending up frequent high-flown
sentences, Kabumpo and Randy looking rather anxiously for some landmark
that would prove they were on the road to Ev. As it grew darker the
Elegant Elephant wisely decided to make camp, stopping in a small, tidy
clearing for that purpose. As Kabumpo swung to an impressive halt,
Randy slid to the ground, pulling the net bags with him, and began
to sort out the boxes containing food. Then he quickly gathered some
faggots for a fire, as the night was raw and chilly, and had Planetty
signal Thun to breathe on the wood. Thun, only too happy to be of some
use, quickly lighted the camp fire and he and the little Princess
watched curiously while Randy prepared his own and Kabumpo's supper,
making coffee in a tin box with some water Kabumpo had fetched in his
collapsible canvas bucket. The Elegant Elephant did rather well with
the contents of seven cake boxes and four bread and cereal containers,
and Randy found so many good things to eat among Chillywalla's presents
he felt sorry not to be able to share them with Planetty or Thun.

"It would be more fun if you ate too," he observed, looking down
sideways at the little Princess, who was sitting on a boulder, hands
clasped about her knees, while she gazed contentedly up at the stars.

"Would it?" Planetty smiled faintly, tapping her silver heels against
the rock. "This seems nite enough," she sighed, stretching up her arms
luxuriantly, "but now it is time to ret."

Slipping off her long metal cape, the Princess of Anuther Planet tossed
one end against a white birch and the other to a tall pine. To Randy's
surprise the ends of the cape instantly attached themselves to the
trees, making a soft flexible hammock. Into this Planetty climbed with
utmost ease and satisfaction.

"Good net, Randy and Big Bumpo, dear," she called softly. "Take care of
Thun. I've told him to stay where he is till the earling, and he will,
he will."

With a smile Planetty closed her bright eyes and the wind swaying her
silver hammock soon rocked her to sleep. It had been a long day and
Randy felt very drowsy himself. Walking over to the Thunder Colt, he
turned his head so that his fiery breath would fall harmlessly on a
cluster of damp rocks. He was pleased to find this steed from another
planet so obedient and gentle. Though formed of some live and lively
black metal, Thun was soft and satiny to the touch and seemed to enjoy
having his ears scratched and his neck rubbed as much as an ordinary
horse.

"Tap me twice on the shoulder if aught occurs, Slandy," he signaled,
blowing the words out lazily between Randy's pats. "And good net to
you, my Nozzies! Good net!"

"That language is just full of foolishness," sniffed Kabumpo, spreading
a blanket on the ground for Randy, and then stretching himself full
length beneath a beech tree. "Put out the fire, Nozzy, my lad, the
creature's breath makes light enough to frighten off any wild men or
monsters."

"Oh, I don't believe there are any wild beasts or savages in this
forest," Randy said, stamping out the embers of the camp fire. "It's
too quiet and peaceful. I have an idea we're almost across Ix and will
reach Ev by morning. What do you think, Kabumpo?"

Kabumpo made no answer, for the Elegant Elephant had stopped thinking
and was already comfortably asnore. So, with a terrific yawn, Randy
wrapped himself in the blanket and, curling up close to his big and
faithful comrade, fell into an instant and pleasant slumber. Morning
came all too soon, and Randy was rudely awakened by Kabumpo, who was
shaking him violently by the shoulders.

"Come on! Come on!" blustered the Elegant Elephant impatiently. "Stir
out of it, my boy, we've all been up for hours. Is it proper to lie
abed and let a Princess light the fire?"

"She didn't!" Sitting bolt upright, Randy saw that Planetty, with
Thun's help, actually had lighted a fire and set water to boil in the
tin box just as he had done the evening before.

"Oh, my goodness, goodness, Planetty! You mustn't do that rough work,"
he exclaimed, hurrying over to take the big cake box from Planetty's
hands.

"Why not?" beamed the little Princess, hugging the box close. "See, I
have found the great choconut cake for Big Bumpo to eat--I mean neat."

"Ha, ha! Choconut cake!" Kabumpo swayed merrily from side to side.
"Very neat, my dear. If there's one thing I love for breakfast it's
choconut cake." Laughing so he could hardly keep his balance, Kabumpo
held out his trunk for the cake box. "What a splendid little castle
keeper you'll make for some young King, Netty, my child!"

"Netty? Is that now my name?" Planetty pushed back her flying cloud of
hair with an interested sniff.

"If you like it," said Randy, his ears turning quite red at Kabumpo's
teasing remarks. Leading the little Princess to a flat rock, he sat her
down with great ceremony and then began opening up boxes of crackers
and fruit.

"Netty's a nite name," decided the Princess, her head thoughtfully on
one side. "I must tell Thun."

Skipping over to the Thunder Colt, who with drooping head and tail was
enjoying a little colt nap, she tapped out her new nickname in the
strange code she used when talking to him.

"No longer Planetty of Anuther Planet!" flashed Thun, awake in a
twinkling and sending up his message in a shower of sparks. "But
Anetty of Oz!"

"At least he's left off the N," mumbled Kabumpo, speaking thickly
through the cocoanut cake which he had tossed whole into his capacious
mouth. "Sounds rather well, don't you think?"

"Wonderful!" agreed Randy, who could scarcely keep his eyes off the
sparkling little Princess. "It's too bad she's not like us, Kabumpo,
then she could go back to Oz and stay there always."

"If she were like us, she wouldn't be so interesting," said Kabumpo,
shaking his head judiciously. "Besides, down here the poor child is
completely out of her element and liable to disintegrate or suffocate
or Ev knows what--" he went on, discarding a box of prunes for a carton
of tea.

"How was the cake?" Randy changed the subject, for he could not bear to
think of Planetty in danger of any sort.

"Stale," announced Kabumpo, making a wry face as he swallowed some tea
leaves. "I'll certainly be glad to catch up with some regular elephant
food. This eating bits out of boxes is diabolical--simply diabolical!
Here, give me those crackers and eat some of that other stuff. And look
at little Netty Ann, would you, shaking out that blanket as if she'd
been traveling with us for years. Why, the lass is a born housewife!"

"And isn't she pretty?" smiled Randy, waving to Planetty as he began
packing the boxes in the net bags again and stamping out the fire. "I
wonder what it's like up where she lives, Kabumpo?"

"Why not ask her?" Swinging up his saddle sacks, Kabumpo called gaily
to the little Princess, who came running over, the blanket neatly
folded on her arm.

"Thank you, Netty. You are certainly a great help to us!" Taking the
blanket and giving her an approving pat on the shoulder, Randy caught
hold of Kabumpo's belt strap and pulled himself easily aloft. "All
ready to go?"

Planetty nodded cheerfully as she mounted the Thunder Colt.

"Will this lightling be as nite as the last?" she demanded, tapping
Thun gently with her staff.

"Nicer," promised Randy as Thun pranced merrily ahead, Planetty's long
cape billowing like a silver cloud behind them.

"What do you do when you are at home?" called Randy as Kabumpo, giving
two short trumpets, followed close on the heels of the Thunder Colt.

"Home?" Planetty turned a frankly puzzled face.

"I mean, do you have a house or a castle?" persisted Randy, determined
to have the matter settled in his mind once for all. "Do you have
brothers and sisters, and is your father a King?"

"No house, no castle, no those other words," answered Planetty in even
greater bewilderment. "On Anuther Planet each is to herself or himself
alone. One floats, rides, skips or drifts through the leadling heights
and lowlands, hanging the cape where one happens to be."

"Regular gypsies," murmured Kabumpo under his breath. "So nobody
belongs to nobody, and nobody has anybody? Sounds kind of crazy to me."

"Yes, if you have no families, no fathers or mothers--" Randy was
plainly distressed by such a country and existence--"I don't see how
you came to be at all."

"We rise full grown from our Vanadium springs, and naturally I have my
own spring. Is that, then, my father?"

"Tell her 'yes,'" hissed Kabumpo between his tusks. "Why mix her all
up with our way of doing things? If she wants a spring for a father,
let her have it!" Kabumpo waved his trunk largely. "Ho, ho, kerumph!
I've always thought of springs as a cure for rheumatism, but live and
learn--eh, Randy--live and learn."

Randy paid small attention to the Elegant Elephant's asides; he was
too busy explaining life as it was lived in Oz to Planetty, making it
all so bright and fascinating, the eyes of the little Princess fairly
sparkled with interest and envy.

"I think I will not go with you to this Wizard of Ev," she announced in
a small voice as the young King paused for breath. "I do not believe I
shall like that old wizard or his castle."

Touching Thun with her staff, Planetty turned the Thunder Colt sideways
and went zigzagging so rapidly through the trees they almost lost sight
of her entirely.

"Now what?" stormed the Elegant Elephant, charging recklessly after her
through the forest. "What's come over the little netwit? Come back!
Come back, you foolish girl!" he trumpeted anxiously. "We'll take
you to Oz after you've been to Ev," he added with a sudden burst of
comprehension.

At Kabumpo's promise, Planetty half turned on her charger. "But this
Wizard of Ev will send us back to Anuther Planet. It is yourself that
has said so."

"No, no! We just said he would help you!" shouted Randy, leaning
forward and waving both arms for Planetty to turn back. "Oh, you really
must see Jinnicky," he begged earnestly. "Without his magic you cannot
live away from that Vanadium spring. Do you want to be stiff and still
as a statue for the rest of your days?"

"I'd rather be a statue down here with you and Bumpo, where the birds
sing and the flowers grow and the woods are green and wonderful, than
to be a live Princess of Anuther Planet!" sighed the metal maiden,
hiding her face in Thun's mane.

"You WOULD?" cried Randy, almost falling off the elephant in his
extreme joy and excitement. "Then you just SHALL, and Jinnicky will
change everything so you can live down here always and come back to Oz
with Kabumpo and me! Would you like that, Planetty?"

"Oh, that would be netiful!" Clasping Thun with both arms, the little
Princess laid her soft cheek against his neck. "NETIFUL!"

"Then ride on, Princess! Ride on!" Kabumpo spoke gruffly, for his
feelings had quite overcome him. "Toss me a 'kerchief, will you,
Randy?" he gulped desperately. "Oh, boo hoo, kerSNIFF! To think she
really likes us that much! Do you think she'd hear if I blew my trunk?"

"No, no, she's way ahead of us now," whispered Randy, handing an
enormous handkerchief down to Kabumpo after taking a sly wipe on it
himself. "Oh, isn't this a gorgeous day, Kabumpo, and isn't everything
turning out splendidly? And see there--we've actually come to the end
of the forest."




CHAPTER 11

The Field of Feathers


"Good Gapers, everything's pink!" marveled Randy as Kabumpo, still
muttering and snuffling, pushed his way through the last fringe of the
forest.

"So now we're in the pink, eh?" With a last convulsive snort, Kabumpo
stuffed the handkerchief into a lower pocket and trumpeted three times
for Thun to halt. "Are those flowers, d'ye 'spose? May I see one of
them, my dear?"

Catching up with the little Princess who was already on the edge of the
field, Kabumpo took the long spray she had picked and passed it back
to Randy.

"My gooseness, it's a feather! The largest and finest I've ever seen,"
Randy said in surprise. "Hey, I always thought feathers grew on birds,
yet here's a whole field of feathers, Kabumpo--imagine that! And taller
than I am, too."

"Well, there's no harm in feathers," observed Kabumpo jocularly. "Pick
a plume for your bonnet, my child. The girls in our countries adorn
themselves with these pretty fripperies. I've even worn them myself
at court functions," he admitted self-consciously. "But do you think
you can hold the colt's head up as we go through? Burnt feathers smell
rather awful, and we don't wish to anger the owner or spoil his crop."

A bit confused by the word "owner" and "crop," Planetty nevertheless
caught the idea and explained it so cleverly to Thun, the Thunder Colt
started through the field, holding his head high and handsome so that
the flames spurted upward and not down.

"It was rather like ploughing through a wheat field," decided Randy
as Kabumpo, treading lightly as he could, stepped after Thun. It was,
though, more like a sea of waving plumes, endlessly bending, nodding
and rippling in the wind. Planetty gathered armfuls of these bright
and newest treasures, liking them almost as much as the flowers in the
forest. Thun, for his part, found the whole experience irksome in the
extreme.

"These pink feathers give me the big pain in the neck," he puffed up
indignantly as he trotted along with his head in the air. Planetty,
reading his message with a little smile, was astonished to hear a
series of roars and explosions behind her. Surely Thun's remarks were
not as funny as all that! Turning round, she was shocked to see Kabumpo
swaying and stumbling in his tracks, coughing and spluttering, and torn
by such gigantic guffaws he had already shaken Randy from his back. The
young King himself rolled and twisted on the ground, fairly gasping for
breath.

"It's the feathers!" he gasped weakly, as Planetty, leaping off the
Thunder Colt, ran back to investigate. "They're tickling us to death.
Get away quickly, Netty, dear, before they get you--Oh, ha, ha, HAH!
Oh, ho, ho! Quick! Before it is too late. Oh, hi, hi, hi! I shall die
laughing!" To the startled little Princess he appeared to be dying
already.

"No, no! Please not!" she cried, dropping her armful of feathers.

With surprising strength she jerked Randy upright and, in spite of his
continued roars and wild writhing, managed to fling him across Thun's
back. Now Kabumpo was down, kicking and rolling hysterically. It seemed
to Planetty that the feathers were wickedly alive and tickling them on
purpose. They tossed, swayed and brushed against her and Thun, too, but
having no effect on the metalic skin of the Nuthers, curled away in
distaste.

"Stop! Stop! I hate you!" screamed Planetty, stamping on the bunch she
had picked a moment before, then struggling in vain to pull Kabumpo up
by his trunk. "Thun! Thun! What shall we do?"

Racing back to the Thunder Colt, Planetty tapped out all that was
happening to their best and only friends, holding the convulsed and
still laughing Randy in place with one hand as she did so. Thun, from
anxious glances over his shoulder, had guessed more than half the
difficulty.

"Search in the Kabumpty's pocket for something to tie round him so I
may pull him out of the feathers," flashed the Thunder Colt, swinging
in a circle to prance and stamp on the plumes still curling down to
tickle the helpless boy on his back.

Feeling in Kabumpo's pockets as he tossed and lashed about was hard
enough, but Planetty, who was quick and clever, soon found a long,
stout, heavily linked gold chain Kabumpo twisted round and round his
neck on important occasions. Slipping the chain through his belt,
the little Princess clasped the other ends round the Thunder Colt's
chest, making a strong and splendid harness. Then, mounting quickly
and holding desperately to Randy, Planetty gave the signal for Thun to
start. And away through the deadly field charged the night black steed,
burning feathers left and right with his flashing breath and dragging
Kabumpo along as easily as if he had been a sack of potatoes instead of
a two-ton elephant. The feathers bending beneath made the going soft so
that the Elegant Elephant did not suffer so much as a scratch, and Thun
galloped so swiftly that in less than ten minutes they had reached the
other side of the beautiful but treacherous field. Going half a mile
beyond, Thun came to an anxious halt, the golden chain falling slack
around his ankles, while Planetty jumped down to see how Kabumpo was
doing now.

The Elegant Elephant had stopped laughing, but his eyes still rolled
and his muscles still twitched and rippled from the terrible tickling
he had endured. Randy, exhausted and weak, hung like a dummy stuffed
with straw over the Thunder Colt's back.

"Oh, we were too late, too long!" mourned Planetty, wringing her
hands and running distractedly between the Elegant Elephant and the
insensible King. "Oh, my netness, they will become stiff and still as
Nuthers deprived of their springs," she tapped out dolefully to Thun.

"Do not be too sure." The Thunder Colt puffed out his message slowly.
"See, already the big Kabumpty is trying to rise."

And such, indeed, was the case. Astonished and mortified to find
himself stretched on the ground in broad daylight and still too
confused to realize what had happened, the Elegant Elephant lurched to
his feet and stood blinking uncertainly around. Then, his eyes suddenly
coming into proper focus, he caught sight of Randy lying limply across
the Thunder Colt.

"What in Oz? What in Ix? What in Ev is the matter here?" he panted,
wobbling dizzily over to Thun.

"Feathers!" sighed Planetty, clasping both arms round Kabumpo's trunk
and beginning to pat and smooth its wrinkled surface. "The feathers
tickled you and you fell down, my poor Bumpo. Randy too was almost
laughed to the death. What does death mean?" Planetty looked up
anxiously into his eyes.

"Great Grump! So that was it! Great Gillikens! I remember now, we were
both nearly tickled to death and it was awful, AWFUL! Not that Ozians
ever do die," he explained hastily, "but, after all, we are not in Oz
and anything might have happened. And what I'd like to know is how in
Ev we ever got out of those feathers."

"Thun pulled you out," Planetty told him proudly. "And look, LOOK,
Bumpo dear, Randy is going to waken, too."

"Randy! Randy, do you hear that?" Kabumpo lifted the young King down
and shook him gently backward and forward. "This colt of Planetty's,
this Thunder Colt, all by himself, mind you, pulled us out of that
infernal feather field! You and me, but mostly me. Now tell me how did
he manage to pull an elephant all that way?"

Randy, only half comprehending what Kabumpo was saying, said nothing,
but Thun, guessing Kabumpo's question, threw back his head and puffed
quickly:

"We Nuthers are strong as iron, Master. Strong for ourselves, strong
for our friends. Thun, the Thunder Colt, will always be strong for
Kabumpty!"

"Strong! Strong? Why, you're marvelous," gasped the Elegant Elephant.

Placing Randy on the ground, he fished jewels from his pocket with
a reckless trunk till he found a band of pearls to fit Thun. Then
carelessly risking the sparks from the Thunder Colt's nostrils, he
fastened the pearls in place.

"Tell him, tell him THANKS!" he blurted out breathlessly. "Tell him
from now on we are friends and equals, friends and warriors, together!"

With a pleased nod Planetty translated for Thun, and the delighted
colt, tossing his flying mane, raced round and round his three
comrades, filling the air with high-flown and flaming sentences.

"Friends and warriors!" he heralded, rearing joyously. "Friends and
warriors!"

By this time Randy had recovered his breath and his memory and felt not
only able but impatient to continue the journey. The field of feathers
could still be seen waving pink and provokingly in the distance, but
without one backward glance the four travelers set their faces to the
north. A few of Chillywalla's boxes had been crushed while Kabumpo
rolled in the feathers, and he and Randy still felt weak and worn from
their dreadful experience, but these were small matters when they
considered the dreadful fate they had escaped through the quick action
of Planetty and Thun.

"I always thought of Ix as a pleasant country," sighed Randy as Kabumpo
moved slowly along a shady by-path.

"I don't believe this is Ix," stated the Elegant Elephant bluntly.
"The air's different, smells salty, and this sandy road looks as if we
might be near the sea. I think myself that we've come north by east
through Ix into Ev and will reach the Nonestic Ocean by evening."
Kabumpo paused to peer up at a rough board nailed to a pine.

"So! You got through the feathers, did you?" sneered the notice in
threatening red letters. "Then so much the worse for you! Beware! Watch
out! Gludwig the Glubrious has his eye on you."

"Glubrious!" sniffed Kabumpo, elevating his trunk scornfully as Randy
read and re-read the impertinent message. "I don't recall anyone named
Gludwig, do you?"

"Sounds rather awful, doesn't it?" whispered Randy, sliding to the
ground to examine the billboard from all sides. "Say, look here,
Kabumpo, there's something on the back. It's been scratched out with
red chalk, but I can still read it."

"Then read it," advised Kabumpo briefly.

"This is the Land of Ev! Everybody welcome! Take this road to the
Castle of the Red Jinn."

"Oh, that means we're almost there!" exulted the young King, but his
joy evaporated quickly as he re-read the other side of the board.

"Looks as if someone had switched signs on Jinnicky," he muttered,
pushing back his crown with a little whistle. "Do you think anything
has happened to him?"

"Probably some mischievous country boy trying out his chalk," answered
the Elegant Elephant, not believing one of his own words. "Straight on,
my dear," he called cheerfully to Planetty, who had pulled in the colt
and was looking questioningly back at them. "At last we are in the Land
of Ev, and just ahead lies the castle of our wizard."

"Oh, Bumpo, how nite!" Planetty hugged herself from pure joy. "I've
never seen a castle, I've never seen a wizard!"

"But, Kabumpo--" worried Randy as the little Princess of Anuther Planet
galloped gaily ahead of them. "Suppose this Gludwig really has his eye
on us? Suppose he rushes out before we can reach Jinnicky's castle?"

"Well, that will not be very 'nite,' will it?" The Elegant Elephant
spoke ruefully. "But what can we do? Are we going to stop for a mere
sign?"

"No!" declared Randy, feeling about for his sword. "Of course not. But
I'll wager a Willikin he was the fellow who planted those feathers."

"Very likely," agreed Kabumpo, pushing grimly along through the sand.




CHAPTER 12

Arrival at the Castle of the Red Jinn


The further they traveled into Ev, the more interesting the country
became to Planetty and Thun. Now wild orange and lemon trees added
their spicy tang to the salty air; waving palms edged the sandy
roadway, and after traversing a grove of lordly cocoanut trees the four
suddenly found themselves facing the great, green, rolling Nonestic.

"A spring!" caroled Planetty, galloping Thun down to the water's edge.
"Oh, never have I seen so netiful a spring!"

"Not a spring, Princess, an ocean," corrected Kabumpo, ambling good
naturedly after Thun. "This is a salt salt sea, full of ships, sailors,
shells, crabs, islands, fish and fishermen."

"And will I see all of them?" Slipping from Thun's back Planetty waded
out a little way, hopping gleefully over the edges of the smaller waves.

"Some time," promised Randy, dismounting hastily to keep her from
venturing too far. "Look over your shoulder, Netty," he urged, drawing
her back toward shore, "and then tell me what you think!"

Explaining this gay, wide and wonderful world to the little Princess of
Anuther Planet, Randy found more fun than anything he had ever done or
imagined. Tense with expectation, he and Kabumpo watched as Planetty
gazed off to the right.

"Why--'tis a high, high hill of red that glitters! Or what? What is
it?" Planetty whirled Thun round so he could see, too.

"It's a castle, m'lass." Kabumpo swaggered down the beach, as if he
alone were responsible for all its splendor and magnificence. "There
you see the imperial palace of the Wizard of Ev, built from turret to
cellar of finest red glass studded with rubies, and there, this night,
we will be suitably entertained by Jinnicky himself."

"The inside's even better than the outside," Randy whispered in
Planetty's ear, as she tapped out this astonishing news to the Thunder
Colt. "Come on, come on, it's not more than a mile, and we can go
straight along the edge of the sea shore. Say, weren't we lucky not to
run into Gludwig?" Pulling himself up on Kabumpo's back, Randy spoke
the words softly. "It would have been too bad to have the first person
outside of ourselves that Planetty met turn out a villain. I believe
that sign WAS a joke."

"Well, everything seems all right so far," admitted the Elegant
Elephant guardedly. "But keep your eyes open, my boy--keep your eyes
open. Is that a welcome committee marching along the beach, or is it an
army?"

"They're still too far away to tell," answered Randy. "Looks to me like
all Jinnicky's blacks; I can see their baggy red trousers and turbans."

"Yes, but what's that gleaming in the sunlight?" demanded Kabumpo,
curling up his trunk uneasily.

"Only their scimiters," Randy said, standing up to have a better
view. "Each man is carrying a scimiter over his shoulder, but that's
perfectly all right, they're probably parading for our benefit."

"Mm-mm! Sometimes things are not what they scim-iter!" sniffed Kabumpo,
snapping his eyes suspiciously. But Randy, paying no attention to
the Elegant Elephant's remark, was feeling round in the net bags
for Chillywalla's band box, and next moment the lively strains of a
military march filled the air.

Swinging along in time to the music, Kabumpo peered sharply at the
oncoming host for signs of Alibabble, or Ginger, the slave of the
bell, or some of Jinnicky's other old and trusted counselors. But in
all that great throng there was no one familiar face, and because he
was beginning to feel more than a bit worried, Kabumpo lifted his feet
higher and higher. "Everything looks black, very black," he muttered
dubiously.

"Why not?" cried Randy, waving his arms like a bandmaster. "They're all
as black as the ace of spades. Mind you, Planetty, it takes all these
black men to take care of Jinnicky and his castle."

"And will they take care of us?" Planetty eyed the marchers with
positive amazement and alarm. "So many," she murmured in a hushed
voice, "so black. I thought everyone down here would be like you and
Bumpo."

"My, no," Randy told her complacently. "Everyone is liable to be
different. I believe I'll toss out some of Chillywalla's boxes.
Visitors should come bearing presents, you know!"

Hastily Randy began pulling out boxes of candy, boxes of cigarettes,
beads, cigars and whole suits of clothing to dazzle Jinnicky's
subjects. But when the leader of the procession came within ten feet of
the travelers he threw back his head and emitted such a blood-curdling
howl, Randy's hair rose on his head, and as the rest of the blacks,
brandishing scimiters and yelling threats and imprecations, came
leaping toward them, the desperate young King began hurling down boxes
as if they were bombs. He caught the Headman on the chin with the
bandbox, but while it stopped the music it did not stop the gigantic
Evian from slashing at Thun. As his scimiter fell, Kabumpo gave a
trumpet that felled the whole front rank of the enemy, and snatching up
the villain in his trunk, he hurled him back among his men.

"Is this--is this taking care of us?" shuddered Planetty, clasping her
arms round the neck of the plunging Thunder Colt.

"No, no! My goodness, NO! Is Thun hurt? Quick, Kabumpo!" screamed Randy
as a second scimiter slashed down on Thun's flank. Then he managed
to breathe again, for the razor-sharp weapon glanced harmlessly off
the metal coat of Planetty's coal black charger. The wielder of the
scimiter, however, did not escape so easily, for a hot blast from
Thun's nostrils sent him reeling backward.

"That's it! Give it to them! Give it to them!" shouted Randy,
forgetting in his excitement that Thun could not hear, and he himself
hurled Chillywalla's boxes hard and viciously and one after the other.
As for Kabumpo, every time he raised his trunk there was a black man in
it, and as fast as they came he slung them over his shoulder.

But it was Planetty who really turned the tide of battle. While Randy,
who had exhausted his supply of boxes, was digging desperately in
Kabumpo's pockets for some more missiles, he heard a perfect chorus of
terrified screeches. Popping up with an umbrella and an alarm clock,
he saw the Princess of Anuther Planet standing erect on the galloping
colt's back, calmly and precisely casting her staff at the foe. Each
time the staff struck, the victim, in whatever attitude he happened to
be, was frozen into a motionless metal figure. After each stroke the
staff returned to Planetty's hand.

"Yah, yah, mah--MASTER!" wailed the frantic blacks who were still able
to move, and tumbling over one another in their effort to escape, they
fled wildly back to the Red Castle, leaving behind sixty of their
vanquished brethren.

"You--you--YOU'LL be sorry for this!" shouted the Headman, tearing off
his turban and waving it as he ran.

"So will you!" bellowed Kabumpo fiercely. "Just wait till Jinnicky
hears about this! How dare you treat his visitors in this violent
wicked fashion?"

"Jinnicky! Jinnicky!" jeered the Headman as Planetty aimed her staff
threateningly at his back. "Jinnicky is at the bottom of the sea!"

"Mm--Mnnn! Mnmph! I knew it, I knew it!" groaned the Elegant Elephant
as the Headman reached the palace and scittered wildly up the glass
steps. "I knew something was wrong the moment I saw those scimiters."

"Jinnicky gone! Jinnicky at the bottom of the sea? Why, I just can't
believe it!" Randy, glancing over his shoulder at the tumbling
Nonestic, looked almost ready to cry. Then putting back his shoulders,
he declared fiercely, "Well, I'M not going off and leave this old
pirate in Jinnicky's castle, are you? It must be Gludwig's doing--all
this! Let's go inside and throw him out of there! We have lots of help
now. Thun's a regular flame thrower and Planetty's worth a whole army,
and best of all nothing can hurt them. Why didn't you tell me you had
a magic staff?" Randy looked admiringly down at the resolute little
Princess at his side. "Why, with that staff we can conquer anybody."

"Is that what you call the magic?" Planetty regarded her staff with new
interest.

"It certainly is!" panted Kabumpo, fanning himself with a handy palm
leaf. "And we're mighty sorry to have gotten you into all this danger
and trouble, my dear. Looks as if we had a war on our hands instead of
a pleasant vacation."

"Oh, that! It is nothing, nothing!" Planetty shrugged her shoulders
eloquently. "On our planet we too have the bad beasts and Nuthers, and
when they try to hit or bite us, we just subdue them with our voral
staffs."

"Mmmn--mn! So I see." Kabumpo, still fanning himself, looked
thoughtfully at Gludwig's petrified warriors. "There must be a goodly
bit of statuary on your planet, m'lass?"

"Very many," answered Planetty soberly, polishing her staff on the end
of her cape. With a slight shudder the Elegant Elephant turned from the
fallen slaves, resolving then and there never to offend this pretty but
powerful little metal maiden.

"Well, have the scoundrels dispersed and gone for good?" inquired Thun,
sending up his question in a cloud of black smoke. Restively pawing
the ground, the Thunder Colt looked from one to the other waiting for
someone to enlighten him.

"Tell him they've gone, but for nobody's good," wheezed Kabumpo, who
was still out of breath from the violence of the combat. "Tell him
Gludwig the Glubrious has destroyed the Wizard of Ev and that we are
now going into the castle to continue the battle."

"But where shall we start?" sighed Randy, staring despondently up at
the gay red palace where he and Kabumpo had been so royally entertained
on their last visit.

"We'll start at the bottom of these steps," announced Kabumpo grimly,
"and mount on up to the top. Then we'll burst into the presence of this
wretched wart and fling him out of the window."

"But that won't help Jinnicky if he's at the bottom of the sea,"
mourned Randy, trying to smile at Planetty, who was busily tapping off
instructions to Thun.

"Hah! but don't forget, Jinnicky's a wizard," sniffed Kabumpo, pulling
in his belt a few inches, "and nobody can keep a good wizard down.
Besides," Kabumpo dragged his robe a bit to the left and straightened
his head-piece, "once inside that castle, we can use some of the Red
Jinn's own magic to help him."

"Magic? Why, of course, I'd forgotten about that." Randy's face cleared
and brightened and seeing Planetty and Thun so eager and unafraid
beside him, he girded on his sword and standing upright on Kabumpo's
back, gave the signal to start. As they trod up the hundred red glass
steps they could hear windows and doors slamming, the patter of running
feet and the tinkle of the hundred glass chimes in the tower. But step
by step, and without a pause, Thun and Kabumpo mounted to the top.

"Beware! Beware, Gludwig the Glubrious! Here march Kabumpty and Thun,
Slandy and Planetty, Princess of Anuther Planet. Friends, equals and
warriors!"

The Thunder Colt's flaming message, floating like a battle emblem in
the air, alarmed the wicked occupant of Jinnicky's castle even more
than the invaders themselves. But still confident of his power to
vanquish all comers, he waited in evil anticipation for the moment when
they would force their way into his presence. Did they imagine because
they had frightened a company of foolish slaves they could frighten him?

"Ha, ha!" Crouched on the Red Jinn's throne and laughing mirthlessly,
Gludwig rubbed his long hands up and down his skinny knees.




CHAPTER 13

Gludwig the Glubrious


"Pss-sst! Wait! Hold on a minute!" As they reached the huge double
doors of the red castle, Randy tugged violently at Kabumpo's left
ear, for the Elegant Elephant, all humped together, was preparing to
bump through. "Let Thun break down the door," directed the young King
firmly. "Thun is of metal and the glass will not cut him; then, as soon
as there is an opening we can follow. Will you tell him, Planetty?"
Randy looked fondly down at the earnest little Princess. "And as soon
as we are inside," he went on hurriedly, "fling your staff at the first
person I point out to you."

"That I will," promised Planetty with a brief nod, and giving Thun his
orders, she galloped the Thunder Colt straight at the glass doors. With
a crash like the fall of a hundred trays of dishes, the glass doors
shivered to bits. Rushing through the flying splinters, Kabumpo and
Thun raced together into the palace.

How well Randy remembered this cozy throne room, its transparent,
red glass pillars and floors, its gay, red lacquered furniture, its
tinkling curtains of strung rubies, and the long line of enormous red
vases leading up to the throne. But instead of the jolly little Jinn,
encased in his own shining jar, a long, lank black man in a red wig
lounged on the seat of state. He was smoking a tenuous red pipe, and,
as Kabumpo and Thun came to an abrupt halt before him, he blinked
wickedly out from under his bushy red lashes. Besides the red-wigged
imposter Randy noted with some relief, there was not another soul in
sight.

"Well," demanded Gludwig, insolently, "what do you hope to accomplish
by this unwarranted intrusion?" Taking his pipe out of his mouth, he
blew a cloud of villainous black smoke into the faces of his visitors.
So thick and sulphurous were the fumes, Randy and Kabumpo were
rendered speechless. While they choked and spluttered, Planetty, who
did not seem aware of the smoke at all, gazed in wide-eyed delight
around her. So THIS was a castle!

"How nite, how netiful!" Lost in wonder and admiration, the little
Princess forgot all about the stern purpose of their visit.

"Off that throne! Off that throne, you wart!" rasped Kabumpo, clearing
his throat with an ear-splitting trumpet. "What have you done with
Jinnicky? You're no more a wizard than I am! You're as false and
crooked as your wig! Down with him! Down with him, Randy! Let him
repent of his wickedness in uttermost disgrace and debasement!"

"So my downfall is the little plan?" Speaking calmly, but trembling
with fury at Kabumpo's taunting speech, Gludwig rose. At the same
instant Randy, recovering his breath, called desperately.

"Now, Planetty, your staff! Throw it straight at him. Oh, quickly!"

Thun's hot breath was already singeing Gludwig's ankles, and, leaping
over the throne, he crouched down like a great black panther behind it.

"Ha, ha!" he shouted again. "My downfall and debasement is it? Well,
try a bit of downfalling and debasement yourselves."

Just as Planetty, taking careful aim, hurled her gleaming staff,
Gludwig pulled a tremendous lever in the wall beside him. Instantly the
floor on the other side of the throne dropped down, slanting Kabumpo,
Thun and both riders into the dark, damp and long-unused cellar of the
castle.

"A trap door," raged the Elegant Elephant, coming down like a carload
of bricks.

"A trap floor, you mean," gasped Randy, picking himself up with a
painful grimace, for the jolt had sent him flying off the elephant.
Thun had retained his balance, and neither he nor Planetty seemed to
mind the force of their landing. As they gazed angrily upward, the
floor of the throne room swung noiselessly back into place, leaving
the four prisoners to contemplate the heavy glass beams and panels of
its under side.

"So that was the downfall, and this is debasement," grunted Kabumpo,
sitting down furiously on an overturned wash-tub. "Great Grump, I've
never been so humiliated in my life. Don't cry, Planetty," he begged
gruffly, "we'll have you out of here in a pig's whistle."

"It's not that, Bumpo, dear." Planetty buried her face in Thun's cloudy
mane and sobbed bitterly. "It's my staff! It did not return after
I flung it at the red-wigged one, and without it I have nothing,
NOTHING!"

"Good Gollopers!" Randy clapped his hand to his forehead as he realized
the awful significance of Planetty's disclosure. "The floor tilted
too quickly for it to return, and OH, KABUMPO!" he wailed, almost
forgetting he was a King and Warrior. "If Gludwig has that staff, what
can we do? He can come down here and petrify us any time he wants."

"We'll hide!" gulped Kabumpo, bounding off the wash-tub. With furious
concentration his small eyes roved round and round their gloomy prison.

"But you're so big," declared Randy, running over to comfort Planetty.

"I'll hide anyway!" said Kabumpo, who had no intention of spending the
rest of his life as an iron elephant, nor of adorning the palace of
Gludwig the Glubrious as the mere image of himself.




CHAPTER 14

The Slave of the Magic Dinner Bell


How thankful Randy and Kabumpo were now for the Thunder Colt's fiery
breath. Otherwise they would have been in almost complete darkness,
as scarcely any light at all trickled down through the dark red glass
of the cellar windows. And there was small danger of his setting
Jinnicky's castle on fire, for the basement, like the rest of the
palace, was constructed of thick plates of solid glass. But here below,
the glass was not bright and sparkling as it was above stairs. Cobwebs
clung to the glass beams, dust powdered the floors, and round the walls
in boxes and barrels stood the old or worn out magic appliances of
the Red Jinn. There was no furnace in the cellar, for the castle was
warmed in winter by a magic process of Jinnicky's own invention; and
there were no doors, not even a closet or cupboard where any of them
could hide. With Thun stepping ahead to act as a torch, the others
marched anxiously round the great gloomy vault-like apartment.

"No place to hide, no provisions, nothing to eat or drink. NOTHING!"
exclaimed the Elegant Elephant, sinking down on the wash-tub. "That is,
nothing to do but wait for destruction," he concluded bitterly.

"Well, we're not destroyed yet!" declared Randy, sticking out his
chin. "Everything seems quiet above. Maybe Gludwig is not going to use
Planetty's staff till morning."

With a discouraged sniff Kabumpo began poking in the boxes behind him.
Finding one full of excelsior, he started to stuff the choking material
into his mouth with his trunk. Randy was sure the excelsior would
disagree with him, but when Kabumpo was in such a mood, it was quite
useless to argue with him; so, beckoning for Thun to light the way, he
and Planetty set out on a second tour of investigation.

Randy paused dubiously before a collection of squat bottles and jugs.
He was convinced they contained liquids or vapors powerful enough
to help them, but the directions on the labels were all in some
strange magician's code and Randy hesitated to open even one of the
magic bottles. Experience had taught him that a wizard's wares were
dangerous, and he himself had seen the Red Jinn subdue whole armies
by releasing incense from a blue jug. So, selecting two pocket-size
jars, to use only in case everything else failed, Randy moved on to
the other side of the cellar. Here on top of a chest he discovered a
small red hand-bag. Instead of the usual fastenings, two real hands
formed the clasp, and when Randy opened the bag it quickly jerked out
of his grasp and began springing all over the cellar on its hands,
pouncing gleefully on papers and bottles and stuffing them into its
side pockets. It did look so comical, Planetty burst into a peal of
merriment. Even Randy could not keep back a grin. It was a relief to
see the little Princess more like herself again, for since the loss of
her voral staff she had been unnaturally quiet and sad.

"Wait, I'll catch it for you," offered Randy, dismissing for a moment
all thought of the dreadful danger they were in. "It must be one of
Jinnicky's inventions. Look, Kabumpo, a bag that really packs itself."

"Watch out it doesn't pinch you!" warned Kabumpo morosely. He
had already begun to regret the excelsior and was rumbling with
indigestion. "I was never one to hold with hand luggage, myself."

"Oh, yes you were!" crowed Randy, falling on the bag as if it had been
a football and coming up triumphantly with it clutched to his middle.
"You use your trunk for a hand, Kabumpo, and doesn't that make it hand
luggage? Hey, hey, hurray! Never thought I'd make a joke in this dismal
place!"

"It's a pretty dismal joke, if you ask me." The Elegant Elephant heaved
himself stiffly off the wash-tub. "Keep it away from me!" he warned
crossly, as Randy, paying no attention to the thumps of the hand-bag,
managed to get it shut again. As soon as it was closed the bag
subsided and seemed absolutely unalive. "Here!" puffed Randy, holding
it out to Planetty. "This bag will pack itself, madam, and you can use
it every time you go on a journey."

"Can I? How nite!" Planetty beamed at her young companion.

"Well, who's going on a journey?" inquired Kabumpo sarcastically,
walking up and down to relieve his indigestion. "We'll probably spend
the rest of our unnatural lives in this abominable basement. Say
something, can't you?" he shouted, glaring at poor Thun. "I can hardly
see where I'm going." As fast as Planetty translated this rude speech,
the Thunder Colt sent up his answer.

"If I said all the words I am thinking," puffed Thun temperishly,
"this room would be very red bright, Mister Kabumpty, very red bright
indeed." The Thunder Colt's speech and his further remarks made Randy
and Planetty laugh again.

"Let's see what else we can find," proposed the young King. In spite of
Kabumpo's gloomy predictions, he was feeling more hopeful. "Maybe this
time we'll turn up something we can really use."

"Oh, maybe yes, maybe yes!" trilled Planetty, slipping swiftly as
quicksilver after Randy. Passing by some dusty apparatus and an old
spinning wheel, they discovered a huge red drum behind a pile of old
trunks. The sticks were stuck through a cord in the side and it was so
heavy that the two between them could hardly carry it. But giggling and
puffing they dragged it into the center of the cellar and dropped it
down before Kabumpo.

"See what we have now!" Dusting off his clothes, Randy surveyed it
proudly.

"Humph! A DRUM!" The Elegant Elephant moved his ears forward and then
back. "Well, what grumpy use is a drum? Am I in a parade? Do you expect
me to beat it?"

"Beat the drum?" Planetty looked surprised and shocked. "Is that for
what a drum is for, Bumpo, dear?"

"Well, yes, in a way." A bit ashamed of himself, Kabumpo drew out one
of the sticks. "It goes like this," he said, raising the drumstick high
in his trunk.

"Oh no! Kabumpo, NO! Don't do that or you'll have Gludwig down here! It
would make too much noise."

"What if it does?" Kabumpo shrugged his great shoulders. "We may as
well perish now as tomorrow. I'm perishing of hunger anyway."

Before Randy could interfere, he brought the drumstick down with a
thump that split the taut surface of the drum from edge to edge.
The loud rip and BONG made the rafters ring, and scarcely had they
recovered from that shock before a small black boy in an enormous
turban sprang out of the drum itself and began sobbing and spluttering
and hugging Kabumpo as if he never would let him go.

"Good Gillikens! It's Ginger!" panted Randy, as Planetty caught him
anxiously by the sleeve. "It's the slave of the magic dinner bell. He
can bring us dinners and whatever one wants when Jinnicky rings for
him. Hi--who shut you up in that drum, boy?"

"That big old Red Wig," sniffed Ginger, drying his tears on Kabumpo's
robe. "Oh, how can I ever thank you, Mister Elephant so Elegant!
I remember you! I remember him!" The bell boy jerked his thumb
delightedly at Randy. "And many times I thank you--fifty times eleven,
I thank you. You see, if I am shut up in a drum, it is impossible for
me to answer the Master's ring if he needs me. And he needs me now, I
know it, I know it!"

"But how can he call you unless he has the dinner bell?" asked Randy,
edging closer. "Did Jinnicky take the bell with him when--when--" To
save himself, Randy could not finish the dismal sentence.

"When Gludwig pushed him into the sea, you mean?" Ginger's brown face
puckered up again, but, controlling his sobs with a great effort, he
sat down on the edge of the drum and told them the whole story of
Jinnicky's mischance and misfortunes.

"The Master, as you know," explained Ginger, his eyes rolling sideways
as he caught sight of Planetty and Thun, whose like he had never seen
in his entire magic existence, "the Master is always kind and jolly and
unsuspecting. This Gludwig was the manager of our ruby mines and one of
Jinnicky's most trusted officers. But all the time, this viper, this
snake, this villainous black snake--" Ginger clenched his fists and
kicked his heels angrily against the drum--"was planning to steal our
Red Jinn's throne and magic, in addition to his own splendid mansion
and fortune. One evening, seven moons ago, having trained his miners
into an army of rebellion, Gludwig marched upon our castle and drove
everybody out."

"Everybody?" The Elegant Elephant, picking Ginger up in his trunk,
looked earnestly into his face.

"Every EV body!" repeated the little bell boy, wagging his turban
sorrowfully. "Alibabble, the Grand Advizier, all the members of the
court and household were sent to the mines under the cruel rule of
Glubdo, Gludwig's brother, and they are there now, working without
rest, hope or reward. He marched the Master to the head of the highest
cliff and pushed him violently into the sea with his OWN hands!"

Ginger began to tremble with grief and anger at the memory of it all.
"He ordered the bandsmen to seal me up in this drum, knowing a drum is
the only place from which I cannot escape, and hoping I would shrivel
up and perish. But I--" asserted the little black triumphantly--"I am
the best part of Jinnicky's magic, so he couldn't destroy me." A quick
grin overspread Ginger's face. "And he could not destroy my Master
either. Of that I am sure, and now that the elephant so elegant has let
me out--NOW--"

"Now what?" breathed Randy, almost afraid Ginger was not going to
tell him. "You see, Ginger, we came to visit the Red Jinn and were
immediately captured and dumped down here ourselves. So how can we get
out? And what can we do?"

"I will think of something," promised the bell boy. Wriggling out of
Kabumpo's trunk, he scurried across the cellar and disappeared beneath
an overturned wheelbarrow.

"So! He will think of something," sniffed Kabumpo, trying not to make
it sound too sarcastic. "Well, of course, that settles it. And while he
is thinking, I intend to take a nap. I'm completely worn out with all
these vile plots and villainies."

"I too will ret," decided Planetty, reaching over to pat the Thunder
Colt. The strange excitements of the day had wearied the little
Princess, and this last story of Ginger's had still further puzzled and
distressed her.

"I never thought when I brought you here you'd have to sleep in a place
like this," groaned Randy, glancing ruefully round the dingy basement.

"Oh, it's not so bad," smiled the little Princess. Slipping off her
cape, she swung it casually between two grimy pillars, and with the
hand-bag tucked under her arm, climbed contentedly into her silver bed.
"Good net, Randy and Bumpo, dear!" she called softly. "I believe I
shall ret for a long, long time."

"Now what does she mean by that?" worried the young King, as the
Princess blew them each a wistful kiss. "Something's wrong, Kabumpo, I
feel it! And look there at Thun! Why is he acting so strangely? Almost
as if he could not see."

"Look at him! Look at him!" wailed the Elegant Elephant. "Where is he?
How can I? It's dark as thunder in here now! Great Grump, Randy, I
can't see you, him or anything at all."

Stumbling and tripping, he somehow crossed the cellar to the spot where
he remembered Thun had been. Then, as his trunk struck against hard
cold metal, he recoiled in horror.

"He's OUT!" moaned the Elegant Elephant hoarsely. "He's not even
breathing. Why, he's cold and stiff as a stone. Oh, Good Grump, the
colt saved my life and now what can I do for him? What'll we do,
Randy? I say, what'll we DO?"

Randy had no answer at all, for, moved by a dreadful foreboding, he
leaned down to touch the face of the little Princess of Anuther Planet,
only to find it still and cold. No sparkling light radiated from
Planetty now as, quiet and motionless as a statue, she lay wrapped in
her silver nets.

"Ginger, where are you? Ginger, come help us!" Randy screamed
desperately. Scrambling out from under the barrow, the startled bell
boy reached Randy's side in a split second, for Ginger could see as
well in the dark as in the daytime.

"Did--Gludwig--do--this?" he panted, his eyes rolling wildly from
Planetty to the frozen Thunder Colt.

"No, no, they are far from their own country and need the powerful
Vanadium springs," groaned Kabumpo, putting out his trunk to touch the
little Princess. "They cannot exist down here. And with Jinnicky gone,
who's to help them?" His tears fell thick and fast on Planetty's silver
tresses.

"Then why do we stay here?" shuddered Ginger, tugging at Randy's cloak
and Kabumpo's robe. "Why do we stay?"

As if to answer Ginger's mournful cry, there was a long whistling
rustle in the air, and next moment Randy, Ginger, Kabumpo and the
Princess of Anuther Planet were wafted like feathers through the night,
passing easily as mist through the narrow glass windows, up over the
castle itself and out over the silvery moonlit sea.




CHAPTER 15

Nonagon Island


The same afternoon the four travelers arrived at the Red Jinn's castle,
a lonely fisherman in an odd nine-sided dory pulled out from the
Nonagon Isle. This strange small nine-sided island lies about ninety
leagues from the mainland of Ev. Flat, barren and rocky, it affords but
a meager living to the nine fishermen who are its sole inhabitants.
Each keeps strictly to his own side of the island, subsisting frugally
on fish and the few poor vegetables he can grow in his rocky little
garden. Hard and unfriendly as their island itself, the nine Nonagons
go their own ways, exchanging brief nods on the rare occasions when
they meet one another.

The habit of silence had so grown upon Bloff, the fisherman in the
nine-sided dory, he did not even talk to the cat who shared his rough
dwelling and accompanied him on all of his fishing trips. And so
accustomed was poor Nina to her gruff and taciturn master that she
expected nothing from him but an occasional kick or fish head. Never
sure which would be forthcoming, she kept her green eyes watchfully
upon him at all times. This afternoon she was certain it would be a
fish head, and as Bloff reached the spot where he had set his nets her
tail began to wave gently in pleasant anticipation.

Bloff himself seemed a little less grim, for the net seemed quite
heavy, and sure he had made a good haul, he began pulling on the lines.
But when his net came wet and dripping over the side of the boat, he
gave a grunt of anger. In it were only three small fish and an immense
red jug. His first impulse was to toss the jug back into the sea, but
reflecting grumpily that he could use it to salt down fish for the
winter, he rolled it into the bottom of the boat and, kicking the
disappointed cat out of the way, rowed rapidly back to the island.

Stamping into his nine-sided shack with the net over his shoulder,
Bloff banged the jug down on the hearth, cleaned and cut up the fish
and popped them into a pot hung on a crane over the fire. Then,
lighting his one poor lamp, he sat sullenly down to wait for his
supper. The fish heads he flung cruelly into the hot ashes, and
whenever he dozed for a moment Nina tried to pull one out with her paw,
for she knew full well she could get nothing else to eat.

For perhaps an hour there was not a sound in the fisherman's hut except
the crackling of the drift-wood in the grate and the hoarse breathing
of the fisherman himself. Then suddenly Nina, who had almost succeeded
in dragging her supper from the flames, gave a frightened backward
leap.

"Oh, my, mercy me! Mercy, me!" came a muffled but merry voice.
"Where--but where am I now?"

As Nina and her master turned startled eyes toward the red jug, for the
voice was undoubtedly coming from the jug, the lid slowly lifted and a
round jolly face peered out at them. What he saw was so discouraging,
Jinnicky--for of course it was Jinnicky--dropped back out of sight.
The magic fluid with which he had sealed himself in the jug before
Gludwig hurled him into the sea had been melted by the warmth of the
fisherman's fire, and the same warmth had restored the little Red Jinn
to his usual vigor and liveliness. In a sort of protective stupor he
had managed to survive the long months at the bottom of the ocean. A
quick thinker at all times, Jinnicky rapidly regained his senses and
realized at once what had happened. A fortunate tide had carried him
into this fisherman's net and at last he was on dry land again; and NOW
to find and face the villain who had usurped his throne and castle.

"But why--why--" groaned the little Jinn dolefully, "with all the
fishermen in the Nonestic Ocean did I have to be pulled out by this
long-jawed fellow?"

Venturing another look, and at the same time thrusting his arms and
legs out of their proper apertures in the jug, he saw that Bloff had
seized an oar and seemed about ready to whack it down on his head.

"Non, non, NON! My good fellow!" puffed Jinnicky, fixing his rescuer
with his bright glassy eye. "Put up your oar. This is no battle, and
I have much to say that will interest you, but first of all I want
to thank you for pulling me out of the ocean. Heartily! Heartily! A
suitable reward will be sent you as soon as I get back--er--get back my
castle."

To this polite speech Bloff paid no attention whatsoever, but Nina,
liking the pleasant voice of this curious visitor, began rubbing
herself against his ankles. "I am the Red Jinn of Ev!" announced the
little Wizard, keeping a wary eye on the oar. "At present banished
from my castle by the treachery of a trusted officer. In fact,"
Jinnicky tapped himself smartly on the jug, "this villain actually took
everything I had and tossed me into the sea."

"What's wrong with the sea?" inquired the fisherman hoarsely. Never
having seen anyone in his whole life but the eight other Nonagon
Islanders, Bloff did not really believe what he saw now. "I'm
asleep and having a nightmare," he concluded, grasping the oar more
determinedly still. And we can hardly blame him, for a fellow whose
body is a huge red vase into which he can draw his arms, legs and head,
at will, is pretty hard for anyone to believe. Realizing he was getting
nowhere and that his grim and dour rescuer cared nothing about his
troubles, past or present, Jinnicky decided to try another line.

"Perhaps you could tell me the name of this place and your own name?"
he murmured politely.

"I am Bloff, my cat is Nina, and this is the Nonagon Island," announced
the fisherman, frowning at the little Wizard.

"Ah, a nine-sided island!" The Red Jinn stretched his arms and hopped
up and down to get the kinks out of his legs. "And I see you have a
nine-sided cottage and a cat with nine lives."

Picking up poor skinny Nina, who was purring for the first time in her
life, Jinnicky stroked her back thoughtfully as he counted the nine
pieces of furniture in the rude hut, noted that it was nine o'clock and
the ninth of May. "But is NINE my lucky number?" he pondered wearily.
Could this churlish fisherman ever be persuaded to sail him back to the
mainland? Looking at Bloff out of the side of his eye, he very much
doubted it. Though Bloff had put down the oar, his manner was anything
but cordial.

"Are there any other people on the island?" asked Jinnicky, more to
keep up the conversation than because he really wanted to know.

At his question Bloff put back his head and in a long singsong voice
drawled, "Bluff, Bliff, Bleef, Blaff, Bloff, Blaaf, Bleof and Bluof!"

"Oh, my! Mercy me!" At each name Jinnicky gave a little jump, and as
Bloff came to the end of the list he seated himself gingerly on the
edge of the bench and stared into the fire. What could he hope from
such people? Then suddenly in the midst of his worries he became aware
of the fish chowder bubbling cozily on the crane and realized at the
same instant his enormous and devouring hunger. After all, you know he
had not eaten for seven months.

"Ah!" he beamed, extending both arms toward his host, "DINNER!"

"MY dinner." The two words were spoken so gruffly, Jinnicky's heart
fell with a loud clunk into his boots. Why, this was unbelievable! He,
Jinnicky, the one and only Wizard of Ev, to be flouted and insulted
by a miserable fisherman. Well, at least he could leave the fellow's
miserable hut and try his luck with the other Islanders. Reflecting
sadly that a wizard without his magic is no better off than any other
man, the Red Jinn slid off the bench and started for the door, trying
to walk in a calm and dignified manner. But half-way there a sharp
grunt brought him up short.

"Aho, no you don't," rasped Bloff, catching up with him in two strides.
"Where do you think you're going? STOP! I need that jug to salt my
fish. Here, give it to me."

"Why, you--you miserable mollusk--don't you dare touch me!" panted the
Red Jinn, trying to beat off the fisherman with his puny hands. "This
jug--is--an--important--part of me. Without my jug I cannot live at
all."

"And do you think I care for that?" sneered Bloff. "You're just an old
lobster in a pot to me. Here, give me that jug!"

Seizing Jinnicky by both arms, Bloff tried to shake him out of the jug.
Nina, enraged at such barbarous treatment of the only one who had ever
been kind to her, proved an unexpected ally. Flying at the fisherman,
she began to scratch and claw his face and hands so successfully
Bloff had to drop Jinnicky to grab the cat. The force of the drop
sent the Red Jinn rolling over and over, dislodging a small silver
bell from a hidden pocket in his sleeve. As the bell fell tinkling
to the flagstones, Jinnicky gave a bounce of relief. His magic dinner
bell, and up his sleeve all the time! How had he ever forgotten it?
Oh, now--now--if Ginger had not been destroyed by Gludwig, and just
answered the bell, everything would be different. And Ginger DID answer
the bell, and everything WAS different! My, yes. So different, Bloff
threw the cat at Jinnicky and simply raced for the door. No wonder,
in his small nine-sided shack were now an elephant carrying a silvery
Princess in his trunk, a black boy in a tall turban and a white boy in
a sparkling crown. With one more terrified glance, Bloff took to his
heels and never stopped running till he was waist high in the Nonestic
Ocean.




CHAPTER 16

All Together at Last


"KABUMPO! Kabumpo! Randy! Oh, my mercy me!" Rolling to his feet,
Jinnicky tottered over to the hearth and, encountering Ginger half-way
there, clasped his faithful Bell Boy to his shiny glass bosom. "As soon
as that bell rang I knew everything was going to be better," he puffed.
"And I rather expected Ginger, but YOU! Why, my dear old Gaboscis,
fancy meeting YOU here!"

"But I don't fancy it at all," grunted Kabumpo, placing the sleeping
Princess gently down on the fisherman's bench and glancing disgustedly
round the mean little hut. "How in Ev did you ever happen to be in
such a place, how did you get here and where in Oz are we, anyway?"

"Oh, Jinnicky, are you really all right?" Grasping the little Wizard by
both arms, Randy examined him carefully from top to toe. "Kabumpo and I
came to see you, and instead of you, there was Gludwig in your castle.
He told us you were at the bottom of the sea, and after first trying to
destroy us with his army, he flung us into the castle basement. There
we found Ginger sealed up in a big drum and we let him out, and after
awhile, in a way I cannot figure out at all, we find ourselves here.
How did it happen?"

"Why, Ginger brought you, of course." Releasing the little black boy
from his tight embrace, Jinnicky planted a huge kiss on his ebony
forehead, and with a flashing grin the slave of the bell vanished into
space. "Don't worry! He's always going, but he'll come back any time
I ring the bell. You must all have been touching Ginger when the bell
rang, so naturally when Ginger answered the bell he brought you right
along."

"Nothing natural about it," fumed Kabumpo, drawing his trunk wearily
across his forehead.

"But you haven't told us how YOU got here," said Randy, bending over
Planetty to see that she had made the trip without coming to any harm.

"And what is that, pray?" demanded the little Jinn, eyeing the sleeping
Princess with round astonished eyes. "Something you brought me for a
present? A pretty little idol you've stolen from some heathen temple?
My, mercy me! What a beauty it is! I'll mount it on a ruby pedestal and
worship it all the rest of my days!"

"Oh, no, Jinnicky, no!" Randy's voice broke and he could not utter
another word, try as he would. In puzzled concern the Red Jinn turned
to Kabumpo.

"She's not a present, but she's an idol all right--Randy's idol--and
he intends to spend the rest of his life worshiping her, if I read
the signals aright," said Kabumpo dryly. "There you see the Princess
of Anuther Planet, old boy, and up to an hour ago she was as live and
bright and happy as any of us."

"But what happened to her? Oh, my, mercy me, another mystery!" Jinnicky
clasped his hands in genuine distress.

"Well, you tell us what happened to you, and then we'll tell you what
happened to her and us," offered Kabumpo. "That is, if we don't die of
hunger first."

"Hunger?" Jinnicky swallowed four times in rapid succession. "Oh, my,
mercy me and us! You do not even know the meaning of the word! I have
not eaten a bite for seven months! But, har, har, har! That is all
over now. With my magic dinner bell right at hand, why should anyone
be hungry? Four dinners and at once," beamed the Red Jinn, ringing it
smartly. "See, my dear, I've not even forgotten you." Jinnicky leaned
down to stroke Nina, who had hidden behind the hearth brush when so
many strangers came dropping into the hut. "This valiant Nonagon Puss
fought bravely in my defense and has thereby earned herself a place in
my heart and castle for all the rest of her nine natural lives."

"But first you must get back your castle," said Kabumpo as Jinnicky
began dancing up and down the room, the miserable cat hugged tightly in
his arms. Even Randy had to smile at that. No one could be around the
little Jinn and stay sorrowful, and worried as he was over Planetty and
Thun, the young King could not help feeling that now they were together
everything was going to turn out right. Some how and way Jinnicky would
help them.

"Isn't this like old times?" he beamed, bustling around like a busy
host as Ginger, with four enormous trays balanced on his head, flashed
down, set an appetizing dinner before each of the company and melted
away like smoke up the chimney. For Nina, he had brought nine saucers
of cream and some minced chicken. For Kabumpo, a huge bowl of assorted
nuts and another bowl of cut raw vegetables, each bowl capable of
replenishing itself, so that there was enough for even an elephant. For
Randy and Jinnicky there were the finest of roast duck dinners. So,
forgetting their mean surroundings and Gludwig's wickedness, the three
Royal Wayfarers fell to and ate with an abandon and gusto that would
have astonished their own castle-holds and footmen. Nina, lapping up
her rich and plenteous viands, seemed to grow fat and content before
their very eyes. And while they dined, Jinnicky explained how he had
been tricked by Gludwig, pulled out of the sea by Bloff and then
nearly shaken out of his jar by the surly fisherman, who at the same
time had shaken out the bell and brought him assistance.

"Where is he? Wait till I get my trunk on him," raged Kabumpo, glancing
sharply round the nine-sided shack. Jinnicky, on his part, when he
discovered how Gludwig had treated his friends and visitors, was no
less enraged and indignant.

"Used my very own patented trap floor on you, did he? Hah! wait--I'll
fix him!" Beating his small hands angrily together, Jinnicky's eyes
burned with a bright red hatred.

"Yes, we were floored, all right," admitted the Elegant Elephant,
pushing away his two bowls, for at last he had had enough, and while
Randy and the Red Jinn were finishing their suppers he told the whole
story of their journey through Oz and Ev and Ix, of their meeting with
Planetty and Thun and the sad fate that had overtaken these loyal
comrades in the Red Castle when they could no longer avail themselves
of their own Vanadium Springs.

"Vanadium?" murmured the Red Jinn, resting his head in his chubby
hands. "I believe I could make a substitute for that. Why, in my
laboratory--"

"Yes, but this isn't your laboratory," sighed Randy, "and how ever
are we to get off this nine-sided island if all the fishermen are as
hateful as Bloff?"

"Har! har! har! Now that is the least of our troubles." Jinnicky waved
airily to the owner of the cottage whose glum face had just appeared in
the window. "Ginger shall carry us back, as easily as he carries the
trays! First I shall ring the dinner bell, then when Ginger appears, I
shall hang on to his coat; you, Randy, must hang on to me and Kabumpo,
bless his big heart, shall hang on to you, being careful to hold the
Princess of this Other Planet in his trunk. Oh, my, mercy me! I'd
almost forgotten the cat."

Scooping up Nina, Jinnicky waited till the Elegant Elephant had lifted
Planetty in his trunk, then, taking the silver bell from his sleeve, he
gave it a cheerful tinkle.

"Ho, this!" puffed the little Jinn, blowing a kiss to the glowering
fisherman--"this is the finest place to leave I've ever left in my
whole life. Oh, my, mercy me! You and us! Here's Ginger! Hold on,
everybody! We're OFF!"

And they were, sailing along as smoothly behind the little slave of the
bell as if they weighed nothing at all, and leaving Bloff running in
frantic circles round his hut--for he was now more convinced than ever
that this was a nightmare or that, worse still, he had taken entire
leave of his wits and senses.




CHAPTER 17

In the Red Jinn's Castle


While Jinnicky and his friends had been having all these ups and
downs and hair-raising experiences, Gludwig had passed an exceedingly
pleasant and profitable evening. As his enemies had dropped into the
cellar of the castle, the silver staff of Planetty missing him by a
wide margin had fallen harmlessly at his feet. Gludwig's army had had
much to say of this terrible weapon, and picking it up, he turned it
gloatingly over and over in his hands. It is true that he had all of
Jinnicky's treasures and possessions, but in his whole seven months
in the castle he had not discovered a way to use any of the Red Jinn's
magic, nor been able to cast a single spell or transformation. This had
taken half the zest out of his victory. But here, he had a simple and
easily managed magic weapon--or had he?

Frowning suddenly, Gludwig wondered whether it only worked for the
silver war maiden who had used it so disastrously against his men.
Well, he would quickly find that out. Stepping to the door, he whistled
for the huge hound that guarded the outer passageway. As it came
bounding to his side he hurled the silver staff at its head. As the
staff struck, the hound's progress was instantly arrested and instead
of a live dog, he had a life-sized bronze with a look in the eyes that
made even Gludwig turn away. But the staff did work! As it returned to
his black hand, Gludwig hurried out of the throne room, rushing here
and there about the castle to cast the staff again and again at his
unsuspecting aids and servants.

"Are you mad?" hissed Glubdo, coming upon his brother in the act
of petrifying a small boot boy. "If you continue in this reckless
fashion--who will do the work or wait upon us?"

"Oh, I've only tried it on a dozen or so," said Gludwig, holding
the staff jealously behind his back. "Mind you don't overstep your
authority, brother, or I might be tempted to use it on you."

Chuckling wickedly at Glubdo's shocked expression, Gludwig mounted
to his own quarters and hastily throwing off his clothes, curled up
in Jinnicky's sumptuous ruby trimmed four poster. He was too weary
to descend to the cellar and deal with his enemies, and resolving to
finish them off the first thing in the morning, the miserable imposter
fell asleep, Planetty's magic staff clutched tightly in his hands.

While he slumbered, strange things were happening below stairs, for
just as the clock in the tower tolled two Ginger noiselessly set his
royal passengers down in the deserted throne room and vanished away
with a flashing smile.

Snapping on a ruby lamp, the Red Jinn looked around him with a long
sigh of content. Motioning for Kabumpo to place the sleeping Princess
on his comfortable cushioned throne, he tiptoed about, touching one
after another of his possessions.

"Where do you suppose he is?" whispered Randy, treading close behind
him.

"I don't suppose, I know," Jinnicky whispered back. "Where would he be
but in my own royal bed? Come along; we'll take him by surprise and the
ears and throw him out of the window. Careful now, boys, step softly!
Confound the black-hearted scoundrel! He's been using the silver staff."

Sorrowfully the little Jinn paused before the statue of his favorite
dog.

"Never mind," comforted Randy. "When you find a way to restore Planetty
she'll find a way to undo this mischief, and you know you still have
Nina."

"Yes," said Jinnicky, placing the Nonagon cat tenderly on a red
cushion. "Come on, then, we'll creep up on him. Nobody's around,
nobody's on guard, this should be easy." Stepping softly up the broad
stair, Kabumpo as lightly as any of them, the three made their way to
Jinnicky's vast bed room.

"Leave him to me," begged the Elegant Elephant in a fierce whisper.
"I'll wring his neck with my own trunk."

"No, wait--I'll ring my dinner bell," puffed Jinnicky, "and have Ginger
carry him to the other side of the Nonestic Ocean."

"Even that wouldn't be far enough," muttered Randy, tiptoeing over to
the bed. "If we just knew where he had hidden Planetty's staff we could
turn him into a big brass monkey, for that's just what he looks like."

"Ho! I do, do I?" The unexpected interruption made them all jump.
Gludwig, wakened by Kabumpo's first whisper, had lain silently watching
from beneath his long lashes. Now tossing back the silk covers, he
sprang up, throwing the staff straight at Randy's heart.

"Now let's see what you'll turn to," he panted savagely.

Too startled to move or act, Kabumpo and Jinnicky watched in fascinated
horror as the staff struck. And strike it did, but instead of
petrifying Randy, the rod passed like a flash of lightning through
the young King's body and returned to Gludwig's hand, leaving Randy
live and lively as ever he was, lively enough in fact to leap forward,
snatch the dangerous weapon and bring it down hard on his red-wigged
head. With a thud that splintered Jinnicky's best bed, Gludwig fell
back.

"Hah! What did I tell you?" exclaimed Randy, and indeed the former
holder of the castle in his petrified condition looked as much like a
brass monkey as Randy had said he would.

"Oh, my, mercy me! Oh, my! Oh, me!" With trembling fingers the Red Jinn
began to feel Randy all over. "With my own eyes I saw that staff go
through you, lad, yet here you are--no mark--no statue. I declare I,
I'm--" With tears running down his nose, Jinnicky embraced Randy over
and over.

"Out of that bed with you!" screamed Kabumpo, "OUT!" And winding his
trunk round the rigid Gludwig, he flung him violently out of the
window. As the image fell with a resounding clunk into the vegetable
garden below, the Elegant Elephant sank on his haunches and mopped his
brow with one of the red silk bed sheets.

"Never--never do I hope to live through such a moment again," he
groaned, blowing his trunk explosively. "I thought you were frozen and
done for, my boy--done for!" Rocking to and fro, Kabumpo blinked the
tears out of his eyes.

"I don't understand yet why I wasn't," admitted Randy, wriggling out of
Jinnicky's grasp and touching the spot where the staff had struck him.

"Someone or something was protecting you," declared the little Jinn,
nodding his head like a mandarin. "Do you carry any charms or talismans
against evil, my boy?"

"Not a one." Turning out his pockets, Randy displayed a collection of
knives, rubber bands, coins and the other odds and ends that a man
usually stores in his pockets. Among the strange assortment were two
small squat jars and on these Jinnicky pounced with a triumphant little
crow.

"Why, Randy Spandy Jack a Dandy, you have two bottles of my best weapon
turning elixir! How did you happen to have them?"

"Those?" Randy squinted down at the bottles in positive mystification.
"Oh, I must have picked them up in the cellar--of course I did, I
remember distinctly now."

"Oh, glory be! Glory me! Har, har, har! Am I a good wizard or am I a
good wizard? And to think you should have happened on the very thing
you'd be needing." Jinnicky danced in exuberant circles.

"Sh--hush! Somebody's coming." Crowding all his belongings back into
his pocket, Randy turned in alarm. Half the courtiers and servants were
crowded into the doorway. And when they saw Jinnicky and his friends
instead of Gludwig in the Royal Apartment they began to back away in
chagrin and embarrassment.

"Oh, it's all right," Jinnicky waved airily. "You threw in your
fortunes with the wrong man, that's all! You'll find Gludwig below in
the cabbages. But I forgive you! I forgive you!" he added impulsively
as his former mine workers began to stammer apologies and excuses. "Go
back to your beds now, but see that breakfast is on time and hot and
appetizing."

With an impatient nod of his head, Jinnicky dismissed them and, looking
very downcast and crest-fallen, they hurried away.

It was a long time before the Red Jinn and his rescuers could bring
themselves to retire. There was so much to talk of, to wonder over
and to plan. But finally, even Randy acknowledged that he was sleepy,
and confident that Jinnicky would find some way to help Planetty and
Thun in the morning, he curled up on a small red sofa and fell into a
peaceful slumber. As for Kabumpo, he stretched out on the floor and
Jinnicky, not caring to occupy a bed so recently slept in by Gludwig,
made himself comfortable on a bear rug beside the Elegant Elephant,
enjoying the first real rest he had had in seven long months.




CHAPTER 18

The Red Jinn Restored


Word of his return had quickly spread through the Red Jinn's vast
dominions, and when Jinnicky and his guests descended next morning a
whole loyal black legion were cheering from the courtyard and lined up
along the shore. After Gludwig had seized the castle and enslaved the
household, the rest of the natives had fled for their lives, refusing
to stay or acknowledge the red-wigged imposter as their ruler. Now that
Jinnicky was restored and safely at home again, their joy knew no
bounds. Appearing briefly on one of the castle balconies, the Red Jinn
made one of his best and merriest speeches, telling of his experiences
and assuring his faithful flock that Gludwig was gone and would trouble
them no more. To prove his statement, he pointed to the fallen figure
in the cabbage patch. Glubdo, fearing Jinnicky's anger, had already
left for an unknown destination, and now there was nothing to be done
but restore the Kingdom to its former cheerful status and prosperity.

While the Red Jinn, Kabumpo, Randy and Nina breakfasted happily on the
terrace, a willing delegation marched off to the ruby mines to release
Alibabble, the courtiers and servants from their long servitude. The
miners who had taken their place in the castle and army were only
too willing to return to the mines, for with Jinnicky back in power
their hours were short, their wages high and each miner had his own
cozy cottage and garden. The petrified miners who had served in the
army that issued out to capture Randy and Kabumpo were stood along
the highways to act as sign posts and also as warnings to all of the
hard fate awaiting those who lent their ears to treachery and their
arms to rebellion. Randy could hardly contain himself while all these
necessary matters were attended to. The young monarch spent nearly all
his time arranging and rearranging the cushions on Jinnicky's throne,
where Planetty still lay in complete beauty and insensibility. Kabumpo
was almost as bad, pacing anxiously between the throne and the terrace
where Thun had been carried by fifty interested blacks.

"Even if I cannot bring them back to life and activity, they are a
handsome addition to any castle," puffed Jinnicky, sinking down at last
on one of his red lacquer sofas and fanning himself rapidly with his
lid. "Oh, my mercy me! Don't look at me that way, my boy! Of course
I'll do my best and double best. But suppose my best is not good
enough?"

"Oh, it will be," declared Kabumpo, giving the Red Jinn a little pat
on the back with his trunk. "I'll bet on your red magic any day in the
year. Look at the way that elixir saved Randy from the magic staff.
Where is Planetty's staff, by the way--sort of dangerous to leave it
about!"

"It's locked up safely in my iron cabinet," said Jinnicky, closing one
eye. "So you really think I'm good, old Gaboscis--better even than the
Wizard of Oz, eh?"

"Oh, much," asserted the Elegant Elephant, wagging his head positively.

"All right, then, leave me--leave me," begged the Red Jinn, fairly
pushing them out of the throne room. "I've ordered all my magic
brought to me here, and here I'll stay till this pretty little
Princess and her charger come out of this metal trance. My, mercy me!
Trance--entrance--entrancing. Oh, har, har, har! I've an idea there, my
boys!" Bouncing off the sofa, Jinnicky skipped over to the Princess of
Anuther Planet.

"Oh, Kabumpo! Do you think he really has?" whispered Randy, as he and
the Elegant Elephant hurried through the door of the throne room and
closed it softly behind them.




CHAPTER 19

Red Magic


The hours Randy and Kabumpo spent waiting for Jinnicky to summon them
to his throne room were the longest and most anxious they had ever
endured.

"Even if he does restore them," groaned Randy, pacing feverishly up and
down one of the garden paths, "he'll have to send them straight back
to Anuther Planet." Rumpling up his hair, he looked wildly back at the
Elegant Elephant, who was just behind him. "And if they go," declared
the young King in a desperate voice, "I warn you, Kabumpo, I shall
jump on Thun's back and go with them."

"What? And leave ME?" gasped the Elegant Elephant, putting back his
ears, "and your Kingdom and friends and all your responsibilities?
No, no, Randy, this won't do. Besides, you'd probably perish in that
outlandish metal wilderness with nothing to eat and no place to rest
your head. You can't do it, my boy, and furthermore, I won't let you."

Snatching Randy up in his trunk, he held him as tightly as if he were
already running away instead of threatening to do so. In the course of
this bitter argument and as the young monarch began pummeling Kabumpo
futilely with his fists, they were both lifted bodily into the air and
set swiftly down in the Red Throne Room.

"The Master has good news for you," explained Ginger. "LOOK!" With his
flashing white grin the little bell boy pointed to the throne itself
and then, as was his wont, inexplicably vanished. What he saw made
Randy rush forward and fling both arms round the Red Jinn's neck.

"Oh, you did it! You really did it!" he cried, embracing Jinnicky all
over again. "How can I ever thank you enough?"

"Where am I?" murmured the clear silvery voice that Kabumpo and Randy
knew so well. "Oh, what a netiful, netiful castle. Randy! Randy! And
there you are, Big Bumpo, and Thun! But how did we come out of that
debasement?"

Without bothering to answer, Randy seized Planetty's hands and looked
and looked at her as if he were never going to stop.

"You're the same, and yet different," he mused, scarcely able to
believe what he saw. "And Thun is the same, yet different, too."

"I am Thun the Thunder Colt, now, then, and always!" announced Thun,
and gave a frightened jump, for he had actually spoken the words at the
same time they went spiraling up into a sparkling sentence over his
head. "Oh, Princess, Princess!" he whinnied joyously. "Do you hear? Do
you see? I can talk, I can hear, I can see and hear myself talking!"

At each word Thun gave an ecstatic bound and then began racing madly
round and round the throne room, in and out between the red pillars,
leaping over chairs and tables in a positively hair-raising fashion.

"Oh, my! Oh, my mercy me!" faltered Jinnicky, and scooping up the
Nonagon Cat, he jumped up on a red tabouret. "Stop him, somebody! Stop
him!"

"Whoa, there! Come back here, Thun, come back; we want to look at you!"
Running after the Thunder Colt, Randy caught him by his plumy tail and
hung on till he actually did stop.

"And he doesn't make a sound when he gallops--not a sound," marveled
Jinnicky, edging nervously over to his throne and taking a seat beside
Planetty.

"A sound but soundless steed! Har, har, har! And do not mind his
breath, Randy, it cannot burn you now; it's cold fire and will not
singe a thing!"

"But how did you do it?" demanded Kabumpo, touching Planetty lightly
with his trunk.

"Oh, partly by my red incense, partly by my red reanimating rays, and
partly by an old incantation against entrancery," explained Jinnicky,
as Randy brought Thun back and handed him over to Planetty. "Do you
feel all right now, my dear, and as beautiful as you look?"

"Oh, yes! Oh, very yes!" answered Planetty, smiling shyly round at the
Red Jinn. "And you, I know it now, you must be the Wizard so wonderful
of Ev?"

"Wonderful! Wonderful? Well, I should say hay hurray!" Randy threw his
crown up in the air and caught it. "Wonderful enough to save himself
and us too. Oh, SO many things have happened, Planetty, since you and
Thun turned to cold metal in that awful cellar!"

"I must make a note," muttered Jinnicky, patting Thun rather cautiously
on the neck. "I must make a note to clean and cheer up that cellar. My!
mercy! me! I haven't been down there for years!"

"And if I never see it again, it will still be too soon," grunted
Kabumpo, leaning up against a red pillar. "Look, Jinnicky," he muttered
out of a corner of his mouth as Randy and Planetty moved over to one
of the windows and Randy began to tell the little Princess all that
had happened on Nonagon Isle and Thun began kicking up his heels and
talking to himself just for the fun of the thing. "Look, will these two
have to go straight back to their own planet?"

"That is what is worrying me," Jinnicky said, speaking behind one
hand and patting his hound, also released from its enchantment, with
the other. "I managed to reawake and reanimate them, but, as you've
probably noticed, they are changed. Most certainly they are alive, but
no longer of living metal, see? The girl's hair is no longer of fine
spun metal strands, but it is real hair, still silvery in color as
her skin retains its iridescent sheen, but I'm very much afraid, as
things are, that the Princess and her colt are unfitted for life on
that far and rigorous planet of theirs. Yes," Jinnicky nodded his head
emphatically, "I'm very much afraid they'll have to content themselves
down here and live, eat and behave generally as natives of Oz or Ev."

"WHAT?" trumpeted Kabumpo so fiercely Nina jumped out of Jinnicky's
arms and hid under the red throne. "Oh, say it again!" he begged,
swallowing convulsively. "Great Grump, why this is the best news I've
heard since you've come up out of the sea."

"You mean they won't care?" exclaimed the Red Jinn, rubbing his palms
nervously together.

"Care!" spluttered Kabumpo, waving his trunk toward the small red
sofa where Randy and Planetty sat in rapt and earnest conversation.
"They care for nothing but each other, old fellow. Right there, my
dear Wizard, sits the future Queen of Regalia, or I'm a blue-bearded
Nannygoat!"

"Oh, my, mercy me! You don't say! Oh, har, har, har! How delightful!
Why, this calls for a celebration, a feast and a fiesta." Beaming
with interest and benevolence, Jinnicky banged on the side of his
throne with both fists and his elbows. "Prepare a feast," he ordered
breathlessly, as Alibabble, his Grand Advizier, entered in a calm
and dignified manner, showing no ill effects from his long months of
servitude in the ruby mines. "Prepare a feast, Old Tollywog, there's
to be a wedding, with rings, bells, palms, presents and all the fruity
fixings."

"A wedding?" Alibabble looked sternly at his master, whom he instantly
suspected of being the groom, then as the Red Jinn, grinning wickedly,
waved to the engrossed pair on the red sofa, he nodded briefly.

"In that event," he remarked, backing rapidly away as he spoke, "I
earnestly advise your Majesty to have a hair cut."

"Oh, my mercy me! Did you hear that?" screamed the Jinn, as he turned
to Kabumpo, his face very red and angry.

"I certainly did," roared the Elegant Elephant, giving Jinnicky a
playful little push. "Hasn't changed a bit, has he? And neither have
you. The last time I was in this castle he was advising the very same
thing."

"That's all he ever thinks of," fumed Jinnicky, fingering his long
locks lovingly. Then as his eye rested again on the happy little
Princess and the prancing Thunder Colt, his expression grew milder.
"Randy! RANDY!" he called, jerking his thumb imperiously at his royal
guest. "See here, my boy," he explained, puffing out his cheeks
importantly, as Randy came to stand beside the throne. "I have done
MY part to save your little Princess and now you must do yours!
Unfortunately," Jinnicky's face grew long and dolorous, "unfortunately,
Planetty and Thun, from this time on, will be unable to exist on
Anuther Planet, so now, without a home or country, what will become of
them?" In mock distress the Red Jinn stared down at his young friend.

"Oh, Jinnicky! How wonderful! Oh, Jinnicky, do you mean it? Thank you!
Thank you! THANK YOU!" Pressing the little Jinn's hands, Randy went
racing across the throne room.

"Planetty," he whispered breathlessly in the little Princess' ear. "How
would you like to be Queen of Regalia, to go back to Oz with Thun,
Kabumpo and me and live in my castle for always?"

"Oh, I think--" Planetty's soft yellow eyes fairly danced with surprise
and happiness--"I think that would be very nite. Oh, Randy, that would
be netiful, netiful!"




CHAPTER 20

King and Queen of Regalia


The feast to celebrate Randy's and Planetty's wedding was the grandest
and merriest in all the merry annals of Oz and Ev. It was, in fact, a
double celebration. The Red Jinn's return and his victory over Gludwig
was enough to keep his subjects cheering for days and to honor his
rescuers and especially the little Princess of Anuther Planet and her
royal consort, the Evians outdid themselves, putting on one show after
another. There were parades and pageants, fireworks and speeches and so
many presents and parties it makes me jealous just to think of them.
Over and over again Planetty and Thun rejoiced in their new life and
way of living, and eating the delicacies prepared by Jinnicky's chef
was not the least of its privileges. In the Red Jinn's castle eating
was a pleasure as well as a necessity. But after a month's merry stay,
during which every point of interest in Jinnicky's vast realm was
visited, the travelers bade the little Jinn a hearty and affectionate
adieu.

Mounting Kabumpo and Thun, and laden with gifts and good wishes, the
young King and Queen set out for the Land of Oz and their own royal
castle. Uncle Hoochafoo had already received his instructions and as
Randy had predicted things were very gay, very different and very
cozy in that regal and mountainous little Kingdom. Planetty's staff,
powerful as ever, was a great help and protection to the young rulers
and the small red hand bag that packed itself went on many journeys
with the little Queen of the country.

If this story were beginning instead of ending, I could tell you a
whole book of adventures they had traveling with Kabumpo and Thun
through the great Land of Oz, for these days the Elegant Elephant
spends almost as much time with Randy and Planetty as he does with the
Royal Family of Pumperdink, and most of it in travel. And in Oz, what a
gay way one travels! The other morning as I lay dreaming of them all, I
got to thinking how nite it would be if the horses on milk wagons here
were all soundless gallopers like Thun!


﻿
                        THE WISHING HORSE OF OZ

_Dear Boys and Girls:_

_What could be more interesting than an Oz mystery? What, indeed?
"Why," I can almost hear you shout, "Two Oz mysteries." And here you
have them in this newest Oz story, two very mysterious mysteries to
solve and ponder over and so many new Kingdoms and characters, I can
hardly remember the proper spelling for their names._

_You will be glad to know that Dorothy has most of the strange
adventures in this book and remember Pigasus? Well, I have long
suspected Pigasus could be useful as well as poetical, and now that he
has so convincingly proved his prowess (how do you like THAT word?)
we'll have to treat him with more respect and dignity._

_Your letters all year have been grand and if I had the magic necklace
mentioned in this story I would wish you three hundred and sixty-five
days of happiness._

_But after all, I HAVE a magic necklace. Each boy or girl who reads
the Oz books is one shining link in the friendly chain that holds us
together. All friends and all for Oz._

    _You believe in Oz and I'll believe in YOU
    Ho, that's the stuff that's strong enough
    To make my wish come true.

_So, happy year to you, dears. And next year? Ah well, who knows what
will happen next year? Another Oz book maybe, if you still want one.
Write me if you do, and best of everything wonderful to you all,
always!_

                           LIST OF CHAPTERS


        1  The King of Skampavia

        2  The King and the Merchant

        3  More About the Emeralds

        4  The King and His Talking Horse

        5  A Great Celebration in Oz

        6  A Strange Warning

        7  What Wizard?

        8  Way for the Emperor!

        9  The Journey Begins

       10  The Witch of the Black Forest

       11  Black Magic

       12  Farewell to the Black Forest

       13  In Kalico's Castle

       14  The Emperor of Oz

       15  The Dooners!

       16  The Seer of Some Summit

       17  Skamperoo in Oz

       18  The Emperor's Horse Makes a Bargain

       19  The Story of the Necklaces

       20  Back in Skampavia




CHAPTER 1

The King of Skampavia


"Is this all?" The King of Skampavia frowned at the great stack of
bags, bales, crates and carriers heaped around his throne. Leaning
forward, he gingerly extracted a fig from one of the baskets and popped
it into his enormous mouth.

"Pah, dry as a blotter," spluttered the red-faced ruler, gritting his
teeth with disgust, "and look at those cocoanuts, no bigger round than
a baby's rattle!" Leaping off his throne, he began kicking at the
baskets of vegetables and bales of cotton and other merchandise. "What
dusty junk is this?" he raged, glaring furiously at Pinny Penny, his
patient Prime Minister. "How dare they send me such stuff?" Clasping
and unclasping his hands nervously, Pinny Penny nevertheless spoke up
boldly.

"Because they have nothing better, your Majesty. What can our poor
subjects do with land so unprofitable and barren? Then, not only must
they produce enough for their own needs, but are required by the law to
give one-third of all they raise to the crown."

"And why not?" blustered Skamperoo, settling back argumentatively on
his throne. "I am the KING! You can't get around that, you know."

"No," sighed Pinny Penny, and drawing aside one of the shabby curtains
he looked sorrowfully out into the courtyard.

"What's all that racket?" demanded his Master, as a medley of shouts,
roars, and dull thuds came rolling up to them. Forgetting his anger for
a moment, he bounded to his feet and came across the room to look over
Pinny Penny's shoulder.

"A slight argument seems to have arisen among the Supervisors,"
murmured Pinny Penny resignedly.

Now Skampavia, I must tell you, is roughly divided into seven
counties, and over each county Skamperoo had set a Supervisor whose
duty it was to govern the province and to turn over to him one-third of
all produce and merchandise in that county. To save time, and easily
identify them, the supervisors were known by the size of the counties
they governed. For instance, the Supervisor of the First County,
which was one mile wide and ten miles long, was called Onebyten;
the Supervisor of the Second County Twobyfour; and the others were
variously known as Threebysix, Ninebyfive, Eightbyeight, Fivebynine and
Fourbyseven. Twice a year the Supervisors rode into the capital with
their tribute, and now, down in the courtyard, the seven tremendous
Skampavians were in a perfect pitched battle, helped out by all the
guards and palace servants.

"Argument!" roared the King, slapping Pinny Penny rudely on the
shoulder. "It's a fight, and you know it! Ho, ho! Just look at the
good-for-nothing rascals. I tell you, old Two Pins, however poorly
they serve us as farmers and merchants, our Skampavians can certainly
fight. And who says I'm too hard on them? Have I not given every man
Jack a dress uniform and gun and made them learn military drilling and
marching at the Royal College?"

"And what use is all this drilling and marching?" inquired Pinny Penny
wearily. Letting the curtain fall, he hurried away, for well he knew,
if he did not put a stop to the conflict in the courtyard every window
in the palace would be broken.

"Now what did he mean by that?" muttered Skamperoo peevishly as his
little Prime Minister whisked out of sight. Pursing his lips, he seated
himself heavily on his throne. After all, Pinny Penny had only spoken
the truth. Why had his father or his father's father ever picked out
this pesky little country in the first place? Located in the southern
part of the desert of Noland, between the Kingdoms of Ix and Merryland,
Skampavia, he was forced to admit, had neither riches, beauty, nor
interest. His castle, though poor and shabby, was comfortable enough,
and having lived in it all his life, he was used to it. He had put up
with the hot dry climate and the poor quality of the food, but after
all, why should he continue to do so? In those long ago days in the
school room he had studied of energetic rulers who had taken their
armies and gone forth to conquer richer and more desirable lands from
their neighbors. Well, then, why should not he take his men, push over
the border into a more fertile and kindly land? The idea pleased but
at the same time annoyed him. Skamperoo was fat and lazy. He loved
quiet and ease and the thought of a hard military campaign made him
shudder with distaste. Still, he reflected, remembering Pinny Penny's
reproachful face, a King should do something for his subjects and
the more he did for them--Ho, ho! the more he could make them do for
him. A rich and prosperous country meant a rich and prosperous ruler.
Discontentedly fingering the rough cloth from which his royal robes
were fashioned, he began to picture himself decked out in splendid
satins and velvets heavily encrusted with jewels. Jewels. Pah! All
the jewels he had were his plain gold scepter, badly dented and bent
from hurling at Pinny Penny. Taking off the crown, he scowled at it
critically and began considering the realms on either side of his own
dominions.

To the north there was nothing but a sandy strip of desert and the
tossing waters of the Nonestic Ocean. East lay the Kingdom of Ix, and
Zixie the little Queen he considered too pleasant and friendly to
conquer. Besides, the climate of Ix was not much better than that of
his own country. To the west of Skampavia was Merryland and at one
time a band of his roistering Skampavians had crossed over into that
country bent on theft and mischief. Recalling the way they had been
welcomed and entertained by the cheerful King of Merryland and sent
home simply laden with presents, he hastily dismissed that country too.
How could he fight a monarch like that? To the south lay the burning
sands of the Deadly Desert, which no man in his own Kingdom had ever
succeeded in crossing.

So, having exhausted all the possibilities in the immediate
neighborhood, Skamperoo tapped his foot in vexation and began casting
about in his mind for some fair and faraway country to conquer. He
closed his eyes in order to think better and was just on the point of
falling into a pleasant doze of riches and conquest, when Pinny Penny
came noisily into the room.

He was preceded by two of the King's Supervisors, who, urged forward by
the fearless little Prime Minister, stood sulkily and defiantly before
the throne.

"Well, what now?" demanded Skamperoo, blinking his eyes sleepily. "Can
you not handle these arguments yourself, Pinny Penny? Is a King to have
no rest or privacy at all?"

Instead of answering, Pinny Penny took a small cotton bag from the
tallest of the Supervisors and handed it silently to the King. Still
half asleep, Skamperoo untied the draw string of the small bag and
emptied the contents into his fat hand. What he saw there made his
eyes fly open--wide open! Jewels! The very thing for which he had been
wishing.

"Emeralds!" gasped the King, rubbing the glittering necklace between
his fingers. "Where did you get this, Twobyfour?"

"They were sent to your Majesty by a merchant in the Second County,
who got them from a traveling peddler. The peddler had got them from
a Gilliken, who had got them from a Quadling, who had got them from a
Munchkin, who had once lived in the Emerald City of Oz."

"OZ!" snapped the King, sitting up very straight. "Where is Oz?"

"Oz is a great and powerful Kingdom on the other side of the Deadly
Desert," answered Twobyfour, looking uneasily over his shoulder at
Pinny Penny.

"Then how did this peddler cross the desert?" demanded Skamperoo,
holding the necklace up to the light and feasting his eyes greedily on
its gleaming emeralds.

"That, I cannot say." Twobyfour cast a longing glance at the door,
heartily wishing himself on the other side.

"Then perhaps you will tell us why you did not turn this necklace over
to the King?" suggested Pinny Penny mournfully.

"Yes, how dared you keep it?" panted Skamperoo indignantly. "And what
are you gaping at, Threebysix? I'll wager you were in this, too."

"He was," shouted Twobyfour hoarsely. "He tried to steal the jewels
from me. That's how he got the black eye."

"But you tried to steal them from me, and what about _that_ my fine
fellow?" Twobyfour turned a painful and uncomfortable scarlet under the
King's accusing eye.

"In Skampavia we have so little, your Majesty," he stuttered miserably.
"With these emeralds I thought I might buy a bit of land in some cooler
and more comfortable country where my wife and two boys could be
happy--a country where flowers would grow in a garden, and where a man
would not have to spend his whole life wrestling with rocks and weeds
and drilling for hours in the hot sun for no reason whatsoever."

"Hah!" exclaimed Pinny Penny, looking meaningly at the King.

"Hah, yourself!" grunted Skamperoo wrathfully, then as the emeralds
continued to sparkle and glitter in his hand his anger subsided.

"You did very wrong to keep the necklace, Twobyfour," he stated mildly.
"But I have decided to forgive you. Return now to the Second County and
explain to the merchant who gave you this necklace that I must have all
three."

"All three!" exclaimed Twobyfour. "But he's entitled by law to two of
them."

"My word is the law here, and you can choose between a broken law or a
broken head," Skamperoo told him calmly.

"He is the KING," murmured Pinny Penny in a quiet voice. There was
nothing sarcastic in the manner of his speech, but something in the
Prime Minister's expression made the King prickle all over with
discomfort.

"Yes, I am the King," he shouted explosively, "and moreover I have
spoken. Begone, both of you, and YOU, Twobyfour, have two days to
return with those two necklaces. The necklaces or your HEAD, do you
understand? And--er--er--you may tell that merchant in your county that
he need send no more of his wares to the capital, the three necklaces
will suffice," he bellowed as the two Supervisors went bolting through
the door.

"How nice--they will suffice. You are the King," sniffed Pinny Penny
with a sour smile.

"Are you a parrot or a Prime Minister? Stop repeating that silly stuff
and tell me about Oz," commanded Skamperoo, clasping the emerald
necklace around his fat throat. "Have you ever heard of this place,
Pinny Penny? It must be a rich and marvelous country if peddlers can
trade emerald necklaces as carelessly as we trade wooden beads."

"It is a marvelous country," answered Pinny Penny thoughtfully. "I
remember my father telling me about the capital of Oz, an Emerald City,
where even the streets were inlaid with jewels and every tower and wall
was studded with emeralds."

"Well, why have I never been told about this?" wheezed the King
peevishly. "A country like that just a precious stone's throw away, so
to speak."

"Your Majesty has never cared for reading or study," Pinny Penny
reminded him a bit maliciously. "In our library there is a whole
history of Oz."

"Fetch it! Fetch it, bring it to me at once!" panted the King, bouncing
up and down on his throne like a big bad baby (which in truth he was).
"I must discover why Oz is so rich and prosperous while we are so poor
and unfortunate."

"Not so unfortunate and poor as we are unwise and greedy," stated Pinny
Penny, stalking calmly across the room. "If your Majesty would study
ways to improve Skampavia and allow your own subjects to keep a fair
share of their crops and merchandise, we might be a powerful country,
too."

"Nonsense! What can we do with a rocky little desert like this?"
blustered Skamperoo contemptuously. "Skampavia is a dull little
Kingdom, a dumb little Kingdom--a KingDUMB, that's a good name for it."

"And you?" murmured Pinny Penny under his breath as he hastened away to
fetch the book on Oz. Returning, he plumped the fat volume down on the
King's knees and stood back with folded arms.

"Well--well? Do you expect me to read all this?" wailed Skamperoo
in dismay. "Why, it would take a year or more. Explain it to me,
Pinny Penny. Just give me the gist of the matter. Just give me the
gist--there, I've made a joke. Ha! ha! ha! I've made a joke."

"But Oz is no joke," said the Prime Minister shortly, "your Majesty
had better get that through your head at once. Now attend closely and
I will endeavor to give you the most important facts about this rich
and enchanting country across the desert. In the first place," Pinny
Penny looked severely over his specs, "Oz is about fifty times as large
as Skampavia, a great oblong, undulating country divided into four
triangular Kingdoms. Each of these Kingdoms has its own ruler, but all
four are subject to the rule of Ozma of Oz, whose capital, the Emerald
City, is in the exact center of Oz."

"A girl?" exclaimed Skamperoo, leaning forward excitedly. "How can a
mere girl rule over an important country like that?"

"By using her heart as well as her head, by encouraging thrift and
rewarding industry," announced Pinny Penny in a tone that made the King
wince. "Your Majesty would do well to read of her wise laws and plans
for the betterment of her country."

"You may just skip all that," sniffed Skamperoo, closing his mouth
stubbornly. "Tell me who are the rulers of these four Kingdoms and the
general customs and characteristics of the people."

Closing his eyes and putting his finger tips together, Pinny Penny
began solemnly: "The Northern-most country of Oz is the Land of
the Gillikens, famed for its luscious grapes, plums, wisteria, and
heather. It is a purple country and is ruled over by Joe King and Queen
Hyacinth, who live in an amethyst trimmed castle high in the Gilliken
Mountains. The Eastern Empire of Oz is a yellow country, known for its
wheat, corn, butter, pumpkins, daffodils, and gold mines. Nick Chopper
is Emperor of the Winkies and this singular ruler is entirely made of
tin plate and celebrated in song and story as 'The Tin Woodman of Oz.'"
Pinny Penny paused a moment to catch his breath and then continued
quietly:

"The Southland is red and noted for its strawberries, tomatoes, beets,
red birds, red wood, and red-heads. Glinda, the Good Sorceress, governs
the Quadlings, who make up its inhabitants, and she knows as much
magic as Ozma herself--"

"Oh, it's one of those magic places where one just snaps the fingers
to get what he wants," sighed the King discontentedly. "Well--well--go
on--"

"The Western Country of Oz is blue," continued Pinny Penny obligingly,
"and everyone has heard of its famous blue ridge mountains, its blue
birds, its violets, its blue skies and its capital, the Sapphire City.
Cheeriobed is King, and Orin is Queen of the Munchkins, and they live
in the Sapphire City, in almost as much magnificence as Ozma in the
Emerald City. Is that all you wish to know?"

"About the army?" muttered Skamperoo, wrinkling up his forehead. "Has
this girl ruler a great army stationed at her capital?"

Pinny Penny grinned in spite of himself. "The young fairy ruler of
Oz is opposed to all wars and fighting and has at her court an army
consisting of one tall soldier with green whiskers," he explained
hurriedly.

"One soldier with green whiskers!" shouted the King, nearly tumbling
off his throne. "I never heard anything more ridiculous in my life. I
thought you said Oz wasn't a joke and yet you stand there and tell me
about an army of one soldier. Why, that's the funniest thing I ever
heard. Ha, haw, haw!"

"Laugh if you wish," said Pinny Penny resignedly, "but don't forget
that Ozma has more magic appliances at her finger tips than we have
pebbles on our desert. In her palace lives the famous Wizard of Oz, who
can work every sort of transformation and enchantment, but does so only
for the good of the country."

"Humph!" exclaimed the King. "Well, how many fighting men have we?"

"Seven hundred Skampavian soldiers in each of the seven counties,"
answered Pinny Penny reluctantly, "but let me warn your Majesty that
the idea you have in your head is sheer madness and will lead to
nothing but ruin. Take off your crown, put on your night cap and dream
away this foolishness."

"And a fine looking crown it is," snapped the King, snatching off his
crown and looking at it angrily. "But these emeralds will brighten it
up a bit, eh, Pinny Penny?"

"It is not the sparkle of gems in a King's crown that count, it is the
jewels of wisdom in the head under the crown that make him happy and
well beloved--"

"Stop! Enough!" yelled the King, hurling the crown with all his might
at Pinny Penny. "When will you stop this infernal lecturing and
scolding?"

"When your Majesty stops talking nonsense," sighed Pinny, catching the
crown with one hand and pulling a long bell cord with the other. "Come
now, let us have our tea and forget about Oz," he proposed calmly.
"Lemon or cream, your Highness?"

"Lemon!" growled the King sourly, and slapping open the book of history
on his knees, he stared long and enviously at a picture of the Emerald
City of Oz.




CHAPTER 2

The King and the Merchant


Two days had passed since Skamperoo had come into possession of the
emerald necklace. He had never taken it off for a moment. He even wore
it to bed, and spent most of the daytime admiring himself and it in
the palace mirrors. Now, as the afternoon of the second day drew to a
close, he kept bouncing over to the windows that commanded a view of
the Highway.

"If that rascal does not turn up soon, I'll--I'll--"

"Explode, probably," predicted Pinny Penny, who was playing solitaire
with the only pack of cards the castle afforded. "Calm yourself,
Skamper, what good are these emeralds when you come right down to it?"

"Good? Good? They are worth more than this whole miserable castle,"
answered the King indignantly. "I can sell them and buy--no, no, I'll
never part with them," he corrected himself hastily. "They give me a
feeling of importance and power. Our star has risen, Pinny Penny. Great
days are ahead. Hark! Listen! Is that a footstep in the courtyard?"
Darting back to the window, the portly monarch flattened his nose
against the pane. "It's Twoby! It's Twobyfour!" he shouted hopping up
and down like a school boy. "And there's a tall bearded stranger with
him."

"If your Majesty will quietly seat yourself, I'll endeavor to announce
them," reproved Pinny Penny, gathering up his cards. "Remember you are
a King and not a jumping jack."

"Oh--all right." Skamperoo flung himself heavily down among his
cushions and presently the tramp of feet along the corridor proclaimed
the arrival of the long awaited Supervisor. Pinny Penny advanced
stiffly to meet him and after a whispered conversation he called out in
a bored voice:

"Twobyfour, Governor of our Second Province, and Matiah, the Merchant,
your Majesty!"

"Yes! Yes? But where are the emeralds?" panted Skamperoo, leaning
forward eagerly as the two travelers advanced respectfully to the
throne.

Drawing a small bag from his leather jerkin, Twobyfour held it sullenly
out to the King.

"Here, your Majesty, and here also is the merchant who goes with the
necklace." Twobyfour haughtily indicated the turbaned Skampavian beside
him.

"Yes! Yes, the merchant." The King, intent upon the jewels, did not
even look up. "He goes with the necklaces, you say? Well, ha! ha! now
he may go without them. That is all I require of you, my good fellow,
your presence here is not necessary or desirable. You may go. GO, do
you understand?"

"Go?" Matiah drew himself up to his fullest height, which was pretty
high, I can tell you. "Perhaps your Majesty will suggest where? For
these three necklaces I traded my house, my shops, and all my other
possessions. You say that is all, and it is indeed. Since you have
taken all I own and possess, your Majesty must take me also. You owe me
a living and I am here to say so."

"Say no more," put in Pinny Penny soothingly.

"Matiah is right, Skamperoo, and well within his rights as well. We
must make a place for him in the palace. What can you do?" he inquired
practically.

"Do?" The merchant opened his eyes very wide. "Do? I am a merchant
accustomed to dealing in jewels, china, cloth, and basket wear."

"Then you'll be the very one to help out in the kitchen and laundry,"
proposed Pinny Penny brightly. "There are no jewels, but we have onions
and potatoes a-plenty, and with the dirty dishes and hampers of soiled
linens you will be right at home."

"What?" screamed Matiah, as Twobyfour snickered behind his hand. "You
require this mean-ial toil of me--Matiah, son of Metorah, son of
Metanic--merchants for these thousands of years? This is preposterous!
An outrage! I will go! I will go indeed. I will start a war, an
uprising--a revolution! Help! help! help!" yelled the merchant shrilly.
"The King has stolen my emeralds."

"Stop! Stop! Not so loud," begged Skamperoo, leaping agilely off his
throne and pattering anxiously after Matiah. "You may leave us, Pinny
Penny, I think I can find something better than kitchen work for this
honest citizen."

"Humph!" snorted Pinny Penny, and motioning for Twobyfour to follow
him he marched disapprovingly from the royal presence.

"You mustn't mind old Pinny," puffed the King, dropping a bit
breathlessly on his throne. "There, there, now, sit down and make
yourself comfortable. As I was saying, Pinny Penny has very odd notions
at times."

"Very odd," agreed Matiah, and seating himself on a chair opposite the
King, he fastened his eyes greedily on the sparkling chains now clasped
firmly about the monarch's fat throat.

"Now, then, we must find something easy and pleasant for you," went on
the King, scratching one ear reflectively. "You might, er--you might
spend your time entertaining me. I'll wager you are just full of good
stories, songs, and amusing tricks?"

"Tricks?" exclaimed the merchant, elevating his nose disdainfully.
Then a sudden gleam came into his small black eyes. "Tricks!" he
repeated more pleasantly. "Ah, your Majesty is right. How well you have
guessed my secret." Leaning forward, he held his hand up to his mouth
and looking furtively over his shoulder, whispered hoarsely. "I am a
magician, King, and well versed in the arts of sorcery."

"Sorcery!" cried Skamperoo, clasping himself delightedly about his
middle. "How perfectly panormick! Magic is the very thing we need
around here. Tell me quickly, what can you do? How much magic do you
know?"

"Is there some place where we can be quite alone?" Matiah held up his
hand mysteriously. "No one must know I am a magician--it must be a
secret between us."

"Of course! Of course!" agreed the King, rolling off his throne with
more speed than dignity. "Come to my private walled garden. No one can
hear us there."

"No one?" asked Matiah sharply. "Are there then no guards upon the
wall?"

"No guards--no servants--no one at all is allowed in my garden," the
King assured him proudly.

"And is there a door in the garden's wall?" Matiah stroking his long
beard stood regarding the King thoughtfully. "My first trick requires a
door."

"Of course there's a door, or how should I get out and in myself? Come
along, come along!" Waddling into the corridor, Skamperoo started off
at a quick trot for his private garden. Matiah, grinning wickedly to
himself, stepped softly after the King. Once in the garden, he meant to
have his necklaces, even if he had to take off the King's head to get
them.

"One sweep of my scimiter," murmured the merchant to himself. "Ho, ho!
This is too easy!" The King's garden when they reached it was no more
than a small sandy square with some cactus plants in the center and a
rickety bench against the wall. Seating himself heavily on the bench,
Skamperoo made room for the merchant beside him.

"Now, then," he grunted hurriedly. "Begin. Show me what you can do.
Prove that you are a magician."

"First I must have the necklaces," stated Matiah calmly. "Without the
emeralds I cannot do a single trick."

"But--but--if the magic is in the emeralds, I can be my own magician,"
answered Skamperoo, clutching the chains with both hands.

"But your Majesty is not a magician," Matiah told him reasonably. "You
do not know the proper words or incantations. No, I myself must wear
these magic jewels. And what harm is there in that? As soon as your
wish is granted I will hand them straight back to you."

"What's that? Can you really grant wishes?" Skamperoo's eyes began to
snap and dance with greed and interest.

"Certainly," promised Matiah, blinking shrewdly across the square and
estimating with his eye the distance he should have to run to reach the
door in the garden wall. "All you have to do is to think of something
you want, close your eyes, count slowly to a hundred, and I, wearing
the three necklaces, will easily grant your wish. I thought you trusted
me and that we were going to be friends," he finished reproachfully.

"We were--er--that is--HERE, take them!" Unclasping the heavy chains,
Skamperoo, who already had a wish in mind, thrust them into the
merchant's hands. Closing his eyes, he made his wish and then began to
count hysterically, "One--two--three--four--five--six." At six, Matiah
was half way across the garden, when horrors! A great white horse with
a golden tail and mane dropped like a plummet from the sky. Pawing up
the sand in Matiah's path, he flashed his yellow eyes so wickedly, the
merchant fell back into the cactus bushes, where he lay screaming
with shock, pain and amazement. But Skamperoo, thinking all the noises
he heard were but magic incantations, went calmly on with his counting.
He had reached sixty before Matiah had recovered himself enough to
crawl out of the cactus and make his way cautiously back to the bench.
The immense white horse continued to stare at him threateningly, but as
it made no attempt to spring forward he began to regain a little of his
usual assurance and courage.

"Great Garoo! Then there _was_ magic in the emeralds. This horse was
undoubtedly the King's wish come true, a beastly wish!" shuddered the
merchant as he stared in fascination at the pawing monster and wondered
what to do next. He was afraid to run past the white horse and escape
with the jewels, but HAH! he could make a wish for himself, a wish that
would carry him and the emeralds far from Skampavia, the farther the
better. Closing his eyes, he muttered a hurried sentence and waited
tensely to be transported to Ev, a country he had once visited in
his youth. But nothing at all happened, and gritting his teeth with
vexation, Matiah opened his eyes just as Skamperoo finished counting a
hundred.

"So!" beamed the delighted monarch, embracing him heartily. "You have
done it. You really _are_ a magician. Behold my horse, a horse in a
thousand. A golden maned charger fit for a King, for a Conqueror--"

"Of all the dumb things," fumed Matiah, wriggling fiercely away from
Skamperoo, "of all the dumb things to wish for, a horse is about the
dumbest of all!"

"Dumb?" whinnied the white steed with an indignant snort.

    "I'm not a dumb beast, I can laugh, I can talk,
    That's becoz I'm from Oz and my full name is Chalk."

"Cha--lk?" quavered Skamperoo, who had never heard an animal speak
a word in his life. "He--he says his name's Chalk." The King looked
appealingly at the merchant and seeing he would have to live up to the
role of magician, Matiah assumed an air of careless superiority.

"Well, he doubtless knows his own name, your Majesty. If he says
his name is Chalk it probably is Chalk, and the reason he can talk
is because he comes from Oz, land of the magic necklaces, where all
animals speak as well as we do."

"Better," sniffed Chalk. Then, taking an experimental nibble at the
cactus, he gave a terrific squeal of pain and displeasure--flung up
his heels and began to race around the garden at such a furious pace,
Matiah and the King jumped behind the bench and cowered miserably
against the wall.

"Well, there you are!" panted the merchant angrily. "You have your
horse and what now? He's yours, you know, and you'll have to control
him." Matiah ducked behind the King as Chalk thundered past, covering
them both with dust and sand. "If you ask me, you simply wasted a
wish. Why, you might have wished yourself a ton of emeralds--or a
Kingdom ten times as large and prosperous as Skampavia--or--"

"But there's plenty of time for that," sputtered Skamperoo, holding
desperately to the bench, "since you are a magician you can grant all
of my wishes."

"Oh, no, NO indeed!" Matiah spoke hastily, remembering the way the
emeralds had failed to grant his wish. "I can grant only one wish a
week," he explained breathlessly, "and I trust next time you will think
before you wish. Whoa, there, you Ozian brute! You silly monster. Stop
that! Whoa! Ho! Whoa, I tell you!"

"Are you my master?" Leaping lightly over the cactus, Chalk came to a
sudden halt before the bench.

"No, this King is your master," answered Matiah thankfully enough.
"Speak to him, Skamper," he urged in a lower voice as Chalk reared
curiously up on his hind legs to have a good look at the King.

"Be--behave yourself," commanded Skamperoo tearfully. "How do you
expect me to ride on your back if you act like this?"

"Ah--so you expect to ride me?" Chalk came down with a thud and grinned
broadly at his new master. If you have never seen a horse grin, you
have no idea how upsetting it can be. "Well, I suppose I shall have to
put up with you," he neighed finally. "Just call a groom or a servant,
old Rub-atub, and see that I'm served my evening oats, three apples,
and a measure of corn."

"Certainly, certainly," agreed the King, starting off on trembling legs.

"Well, I must say this is splendid, splendid!" protested Matiah,
hurrying nervously after the King. (He was afraid to stay in the
garden with Chalk.) "Where do you expect to get, taking orders from a
horse?"

"I suppose you'd prefer me to take them from you!" puffed Skamperoo,
beginning to grow a little angry himself. "Here, GIVE me my necklaces."
Snatching the emeralds from the merchant's neck, he went charging into
the palace hardly knowing whether to be glad or sorry for the sudden
change in his fortunes.

But by the time he reached his throne room, he had calmed down
considerably. Seating himself hurriedly on his throne, he pondered how
he could keep all these strange occurrences from Pinny Penny. He felt
sure Pinny Penny would never approve of magic necklaces or a talking
horse. Well now, he'd just tell his meddlesome Prime Minister that the
stamping, snorting steed in the garden belonged to Matiah and must be
fed and stabled. When he made another wish--and he had a whole week to
think about that--when he made another wish he would be careful to wish
for everything he needed. As for this whiskery wizard--he would flatter
him along until he discovered the right magic to use with the emeralds.
Then he would wish him away like that. Like THAT! Snapping his fingers
spitefully, Skamperoo pulled the long bell cord that summoned Pinny
Penny. His Royal Charger should be fed. Not many monarchs had a talking
horse with a golden mane. Aho, but he was coming on! He'd show Pinny
Penny yet what a smart ruler he was!

Now Matiah, following the King slowly into the palace, had done some
reflecting, too. He resolved not to lose his temper again with this
provoking simpleton of a sovereign. He would simply humor him along
and before the week was out he would have another chance to steal the
necklaces and escape to some far country. There at his leisure he would
experiment until he discovered the right way to use them. He could not
understand why the King had got his wish and his own wish had gone for
nothing. What was the secret of the magic emeralds? With his forehead
still wrinkled in thought, Matiah entered the throne room and quietly
seated himself in a chair opposite Skamperoo. Much to his relief, the
King neither reproached nor upbraided him.

"Ah, so there you are?" he cried in his best meant-to-be-cheerful
voice. "I have just sent Pinny Penny to feed your horse."

"_My_ horse?" barked Matiah, starting up in dismay, then catching a
meaning wink from the King, he quickly winked back.

"It seemed wisest," murmured Skamperoo, "to say nothing of your magic
powers for the present. All this will be OUR secret," he finished
playfully.

"Oh, yes, yes--indubitably!" While Skamperoo was still wondering what
"indubitably" meant, Matiah hurried out of the room and took a long
drink of water from the old-fashioned fountain in the hall.

"OUR secret!" he repeated bitterly to himself. "Our secret, indeed!"




CHAPTER 3

More About the Emeralds


Skamperoo had not slept a wink. He tossed from side to side of the
royal bed, his head simply buzzing with enchanting plans for the
future. With the magic emeralds he could have everything he desired,
and his desires and wishes were multiplying so rapidly he scarcely
knew where to begin or what to wish first. The necklaces pressed
uncomfortably against his throat, but he would not take them off. He
was so weary he ached in every bone, but still he could not stop
thinking, and just as the castle clock tolled seven the very thing he
should wish for first came suddenly to him.

Ah, that was it--too bad he had to wait a whole week, but a week would
pass and perhaps during that time he would discover for himself the
magic secret of his sparkling new treasures. Then he could be his own
magician and put that meddlesome merchant in his place. As he was
running over in his mind possible places to send Matiah, the door of
his room opened cautiously and Pinny Penny stuck in his head.

"Well! Well? And did I ring?" grunted Skamperoo fretfully. "This is a
fine time to awaken an Emperor."

"Emperor?" exclaimed Pinny Penny, coming all the way into the room and
closing the door. "Since when has Skampavia's King become an Emperor?"

"Oh, go away and don't bother me." Turning his back on Pinny Penny, the
King thumped his pillow and closed his eyes as tightly as he could.

"It's all about the horse," whispered Pinny Penny, coming around to the
other side of the bed. "A strange and magnificent animal for a mere
merchant, if I may be permitted to say so. Not only that--it TALKS.
It's ordering the stable boys around in a shocking manner and it even
told ME to mind my own business."

"Well, why don't you?" suggested Skamperoo, rolling over on his back.
"Of course he talks, Pinny; he's an Oz horse, and all animals from Oz
talk. I thought you knew that."

"Well, if this merchant has a talking horse, he is not so poor as he
pretends," persisted Pinny Penny, shaking his finger under the King's
nose. "My advice is to set the fellow on his horse and send him about
his business as quickly as possible. I don't like his looks, Skamper.
He's mean and mischievous, and mark my words, no good will come of him
or his necklaces."

"I don't like his looks any better than you," agreed the King, clasping
his fat hands on his stomach. "But if I keep the emeralds I must keep
the merchant, and besides I've a notion I could ride that talking horse
myself."

"Oh, good goats and gravy! Then I'd best go and lay in a supply of
splints and liniment." Pushing his specs up on his forehead, Pinny
Penny cast a disgusted glance at his huge reclining master and rushed
hurriedly from the royal presence.

Now Matiah, as you can well imagine, had slept no better than the
King. In the small room to which Pinny Penny had taken him, he paced
restlessly up and down. After all, he knew only two facts about the
magic emeralds, the first that they really could, under certain
conditions, grant wishes; the second, that they must not be worn by the
person making the wish. This much the merchant had reasoned out for
himself. As the King had got his wish while he, Matiah, was wearing
the necklaces, and he himself had not got the wish he made with the
emeralds around his own throat, that much seemed certain. Snapping his
fingers joyfully and feeling sure the King was now wearing the jeweled
chains, Matiah made a second wish, counting slowly to a hundred.
But the hearty supper he had ordered as a test failed to appear and
flinging himself down on the bed he began to rack his brains for some
other solution of the mystery. Perhaps the magic power rested in a
single stone which he had luckily touched as the King made his wish.

Holding his head with both hands, he tried to remember exactly what he
had done as Skamperoo began to count. But it was no use. He could not
recall a single thing after he had started to run across the garden.
And how, concluded the infuriated fellow, was he ever to discover
the way to use the emeralds without arousing the King's suspicions
or revealing the fact that he knew no more about them than Skamperoo
himself? Muttering with vexation, he kicked a foot stool all the way
across the room and sat staring morosely at the worn carpet. The short,
uneasy nap he finally got before morning did him no good, and cross
and jumpy as a cougar, he made his way to the dingy dining hall of the
palace.

The King had already breakfasted, and looking out of the window,
Matiah saw a terrified servant leading the Talking Horse around the
courtyard, Skamperoo following at a safe distance. The sight of the
stamping white charger made Matiah shudder anew. What a waste! he
reflected bitterly, and if the King grew fond of the saucy monster it
would make his own task even more difficult, for until he succeeded in
stealing the necklaces, Matiah did not intend to let Skamperoo out of
his sight. Gulping down the weak coffee and cold eggs a shabby servant
grudgingly placed before him, he hastened outside.

"Good morning, your Majesty!" he called out heartily. "And may I have a
word with your Royal Highness?"

"What kind of a word?" snickered Chalk, rolling his yellow eyes
roguishly round at the merchant. "Give him a word, old Rub-atub, if
that's all he wants. The right word for him, I should say, would be
'GO!' or 'NO!' and then we all could be happy."

"It is about the necklaces," confided Matiah, ignoring the horse
utterly, and falling easily into step with the King. "They must be
cleaned every day to keep them in good wishing condition."

"But I was just going for a ride," objected Skamperoo with a little
frown, "won't this afternoon do?"

"No, NOW is the proper time," answered Matiah impressively, thinking
how clever he was to have invented this ruse to get hold of the
emeralds. "If your Majesty will just give them to me, I'll polish them
up while you are--er--exercising."

"No--no--er--that is, I'd better come and help you," Skamperoo spoke
quickly. "I can ride this afternoon."

"You think so?" With an exuberant prance, Chalk rose on his hind legs
and spun around like a pinwheel. "Well, see you later, old Sos!" And
with the terrified stable boy hanging to his bridle he went galloping
off to the stable.

"If you take my advice, you'll have that creature knocked on the head,"
said Matiah savagely. "Surely you won't endanger our lives by riding on
his back?"

"OUR lives!" exclaimed Skamperoo, looking at Matiah in surprise. "You
do not have to ride him; in fact, he's really my horse," he stated
jealously.

"So long as your Majesty wears the magic necklaces I must go wherever
you go and do whatever you do!" explained the merchant loftily.

"How--how very awkward!" In spite of himself, Skamperoo groaned as he
thought how tiresome it would be with Matiah trailing after him from
morning till night. "I should think a magician like yourself could
arrange things more sensibly."

"But consider what is at stake," Matiah reminded him earnestly.
"Together we can have and do anything we wish. Is that not worth a
little inconvenience?"

"Yes, yes, I suppose so. But if we are to do everything together,
I think I should know the magic wishing formula as well as you."
Skamperoo looked defiantly up at his newest advisor.

"That is impossible." Striding along stiffly, Matiah shook his head.
"The incantation once revealed becomes powerless. Only one versed in
magic is permitted to use the emeralds. Have you thought at all about
your next wish?" he asked, anxious to direct the King's mind into more
cheerful channels. "We should plan and consult about it together, you
know. But wait until we are in your Majesty's throne room," He added
quickly, as Skamperoo began to open and shut his mouth like a fish
without saying anything. "While I am cleaning the necklaces we can
talk it over, yes?" Matiah's fingers fairly itched for the sparkling
jewels, but restraining a mad impulse to snatch them from the King's
throat, he walked along quietly beside Skamperoo talking so calmly and
convincingly that he soon had the Skampavian monarch not only willing
but anxious to reveal the wish that had kept him awake most of the
night.

First assuring himself that they were alone and locking the door
so they would not be disturbed, the King seated himself at a small
table. Matiah drew up a chair opposite and held out his hand for the
necklaces. Reluctantly Skamperoo handed them over, keeping a jealous
eye on the jewels as the merchant began polishing them with a small
square of silk he had taken from his pocket.

As he rubbed the silk over the emeralds, Matiah carefully examined
each one for some mark or sign that would give him a clue to their
magic power. Intent as he was upon this task, a few low spoken words
of Skamperoo made him sit suddenly erect and regard the King with new
respect and attention. How in thunderation, thought Matiah wonderingly,
had this fat silly monarch ever managed to hit upon such a magnificent
and breath-taking wish, and as Skamperoo explained and elaborated
upon his plans and schemes for the future, the merchant's interest
grew apace. Quicker and cleverer than the King, he saw not only the
possibilities of this splendid wish, but all the difficulties and
problems that must be met and disposed of before it could be reasonably
granted.

Leaning forward, the emeralds for the moment forgotten, he put his
mouth close to Skamperoo's ear. "There are three things that must be
done before your wish can be realized." Matiah spoke tensely. "First,
... second, ... third, ...." After each short whispered direction
Skamperoo nodded to show that he understood.

"Then it will take four wishes to do it," he sighed, resting his elbows
heavily on the table. "That will be four weeks, won't it?"

"No, perhaps if we are careful we can work it all into one," answered
Matiah thoughtfully, and taking up his bit of silk he began polishing
the emeralds with renewed vigor. The King, watching him, forgot his
former dislike and distrust. Matiah's enthusiastic approval of his
plans made him feel that perhaps he had misjudged this long-faced,
whiskered stranger. Perhaps he would not wish him away, after all. He
might prove very useful in the strange and magnificent future that
stretched ahead.

Matiah, on his part, had no such kindly intentions toward the King. He
merely meant to make Skamperoo's wish his own, and so grand and daring
was the prospect that he grew more impatient than ever to discover the
way to accomplish it. Holding all three necklaces up to the light,
he squinted at them anxiously. The chains seemed identical in every
respect, but no--what was this? One had a diamond clasp, while the
clasps on the other two were of flattened emeralds. This, then, was the
solution. The magic wishing power undoubtedly rested in the diamond
clasp. Revealing in no way his satisfaction and elation over this
important discovery, Matiah handed the necklaces back to the King.

Somehow, decided the merchant, he must make Skamperoo touch the diamond
clasp while he silently repeated the King's wish, but before that he
needed a little time to prepare himself for the grand and glorious
years that were to be his. As Skamperoo, exhausted by so much thinking
early in the morning, waddled wearily over to his throne, Matiah strode
to the book shelves located in an adjoining alcove.

"While your Majesty rests I will have a look at this interesting
library," he murmured ingratiatingly, "and at the same time store up
some useful information for the future." Skamperoo sleepily returned
the merchant's broad wink, then, sinking back among his cushions,
closed his eyes.

From his chair in the alcove, Matiah could keep the King in view, and
satisfied that Skamperoo was really asleep, he began hurriedly turning
over the pages of the large volume Pinny Penny had but that morning
returned to the shelves. Soon he became so absorbed he forgot all about
the King. And that was a pity, for had he taken the trouble to look, he
would have discovered that the King was no longer _there_.




CHAPTER 4

The King and His Talking Horse


Now it is true that the King had closed his eyes as Matiah settled
himself in the alcove to read, but he was very far from asleep.
In fact, no more than five minutes had been ticked away by the
old-fashioned clock, in the corner before Skamperoo straightened up as
if suddenly struck by lightning. Casting a cautious look at the quiet
merchant, he began to slide rapidly toward the door. Opening it without
a sound, he slipped out into the corridor and, closing it just as
softly, went puffing away to the quarters of the White Wishing Horse
at the back of the courtyard. Though usually unenterprising and dull,
we must credit Skamperoo with one brilliant idea. As Chalk had been
brought to Skampavia by the magic emeralds, why should he not know the
trick of using them? Fairly panting with eagerness and impatience,
Skamperoo jerked open the door of the stable and stepped recklessly
into Chalk's stall.

"Ah, the little Kingaling!" whinnied Chalk, tossing his mane gaily. For
some reason or other he found his fat master tremendously amusing, and
while he had an immediate desire to trample on Matiah and frighten off
the stable boys, he felt only an affectionate tolerance for the tubby
little ruler of Skampavia. "Have you come for your ride?" he inquired,
giving the King a playful poke with his soft nose.

"No, I've come to talk to you," wheezed Skamperoo, seating himself
carefully on an overturned water bucket. "Quick, tell me all you know
about these magic emeralds." Touching his three necklaces with a
trembling forefinger, the King looked imploringly into the face of his
new and powerful steed.

"Humph!" Chalk shifted a mouthful of hay to his other cheek. "Well, as
to that, or rather them, all that I know is nothing. You forget that
I only came into existence yesterday afternoon."

"Of course, of course! I was the one who wished you here," explained
the King impatiently.

"You wished me here?" mused Chalk, staring meditatively at the comical
figure on the water bucket. "Well, I hardly know whether to thank you
or to jump on you with all four feet. Even without any experience at
all, I can see that this is no place for me."

"You're right," sighed Skamperoo, clasping his knees dejectedly. "It's
no place for me, either. That is why I must know about the emeralds.
They can satisfy our every wish, and if we just knew how to use them we
could go away together."

"You think you could manage that!" sniffed Chalk, who had his own
opinion as to what would happen once the King mounted on his back.

"Yes, together!" insisted Skamperoo. "Try to think," he begged
earnestly. "You say you know nothing, then how did you know you came
from Oz and your name and all that?"

"That's right, how did I?" Putting one ear forward and one ear
backward, Chalk swallowed his hay with a quick gulp. "There must be a
lot of stuff in my head that I practically know nothing about," he
reasoned thoughtfully. "Suppose you tell me exactly what happened and
then I'll tell you what I think of it." So, hunching forward, Skamperoo
recounted the whole story of the merchant and the necklaces, how he and
Matiah had retired to his private garden, how there, with the merchant
wearing the emeralds, his first wish had been granted.

"And a splendid wish it was, too," sighed Skamperoo, looking fondly up
at his white horse. "Never forget that you were my first wish, fellow."

"I'm hardly likely to forget myself," snickered Chalk loftily, "but
attend closely, old Crown and Scepter, when I dropped down into that
garden yon whiskered merchant was running for the gate as if his life
depended on it. He only stopped because he was afraid to pass me, and
from the way he fell into those cactus bushes, I'll wager he was as
astonished as you were that the emeralds had granted your wish." Chalk
wrinkled his forehead shrewdly. "I don't believe he knows any more
about the necklaces than we do. If he did, he would never have sent you
one in the first place, and he would have granted all of his own wishes
and been in some splendid other place. Matiah's a fraud!" finished the
King's horse vehemently, "and means to steal back the emeralds."

"Of course! Of course! Oh! Oh! Why didn't I think of that myself? What
shall we do now?" wailed Skamperoo, jumping up so quickly he overturned
the bucket, for Chalk's frankly spoken opinion confirmed his own
suspicions of the merchant.

"Sit down," advised the white horse, not unkindly. "I may not be a
magician, but I have a little sense, and horse sense is what your
Majesty needs more than anything else." As Skamperoo righted the bucket
and meekly sat down again, Chalk closed his eyes, standing silent and
motionless for so long the King thought he had fallen into a trance.
But just as he began to fidget nervously about on the uncomfortable
edge of the bucket, the white horse opened his eyes and flashing a
triumphant smile at Skamperoo, began calling in a loud, lordly voice.
"Boy! BOY! BOY!"

While the King regarded him with mingled misgivings and admiration,
Chalk snapped out directions to the clumsy little groom who came
running in answer to his summons. When his mane and tail had been
thoroughly brushed and he was decked out once more in the splendid
saddle and trappings he had worn on his first appearance in Skampavia,
he dismissed the groom with a haughty toss of his head.

"Come!" he breathed mysteriously. "Climb up, Skamperoo, and we'll
Skamperoodle before that rascally merchant even misses us. Have you
decided upon the place we are to go?" he questioned curiously as the
King made seven frantic attempts to put his foot in the golden stirrup.
"Heh! Heh! Heh! The other foot, Master. How do you ever expect to mount
that way? Stand on the bucket, Kingaling, catch hold of the saddle and
pull. It's easy as oats once you get the hang of it."

"Is it?" Lying mournfully on his back where he had fallen after his
last effort, Skamperoo gazed mournfully upward and Chalk himself began
to champ, snort and switch his tail with irritation.

"You wished me on yourself and now it looks as if you would have to
wish yourself on me," he muttered savagely. "Here, give me those
necklaces--hang them over my ear and let's have done with this shameful
exhibition."

"You mean--if I wish myself upon your back I will really be there?"
panted Skamperoo, bouncing up like a rubber ball. "You mean you have
discovered the secret of the emeralds?"

"Certainly!" The white horse regarded him scornfully through
half-closed eyes, and the King, all too willing to be convinced,
unclasped his three necklaces and, standing on tip toe, hung them over
Chalk's right ear.

"I--I wish to be upon this creature's back," puffed Skamperoo, his
cheeks swelling out with suspense and importance. "One, two, three,
four, five, six--" and scarcely had he begun to count before he found
himself firmly seated in the saddle.

"Now, now, not another word," commanded Chalk sternly. "Before you dare
to speak, take those emeralds off my ear." With shaking hands the King
did as he was told, his heart pounding so violently it almost kicked
a hole in his shirt.

"That's right," directed the white horse more mildly. "Now suppose you
tell me where you intend to wish us and what we do after that? Wishes
are pretty quick, you know, and it is best to be prepared."

"But--but I cannot understand how you made them work," spluttered
Skamperoo. "It's wonderful--it's marvelous, do you understand what this
means?"

"Perfectly." Chalk rolled his eyes triumphantly round at his greedy
little Master. "My head seems to be full of magic, which is not
strange, seeing that I was magically brought into existence and the
trick of the necklaces once I got to thinking about them is quite
simple. Now I am what I am--a horse, and quite satisfied, but you with
these emeralds may easily make a jackass of yourself, so you had better
tell me what you wish before you wish it. For instance," he went on
reprovingly, "if instead of wishing yourself upon my back, you had
wished yourself a good horseman, how much wiser that would have been.
There's a lot more to riding than getting into the saddle, you know.
But never mind that now, what was this great big wish you and Matiah
were planning together?" Leaning so far forward he almost lost his
balance, Skamperoo hurriedly whispered into Chalk's left ear his grand
and glorious wish for the future, being careful to add to his own wish
the three crafty suggestions made by the clever merchant.

"You are sure this is what you desire?" Chalk looked sharply and a
little sadly at the rotund and royal figure on his back. "You mean to
go away and leave your own people without a thought or care? Isn't
there anyone here you would like to take along or give a share of your
good fortune?" The King shook his head violently.

"I might make a wish for Pinny Penny," he added rather sheepishly.

"Good idea," sniffed Chalk. "What are you going to give old Skinny
Pins? You know I rather like that old codger." Without delay and a bit
spitefully the King told him, and as this time Chalk found no fault
with the wish, Skamperoo again placed the emeralds over Chalk's ear and
quickly spoke nine words. Then, without waiting to see whether Pinny
Penny got his wish, Chalk again took command.

"If you do exactly as I say, we'll get off before Matiah discovers
you are gone and comes down here to slice off your head to get his
necklaces," said the white horse severely. Lowering his voice to a
whisper, he slowly enunciated four brief sentences. Tingling partly
with fright and partly with anticipation, Skamperoo repeated the four
sentences after Chalk and began his counting. But, stars! Scarcely had
he reached ten before he felt a great lift and lurch, had just time to
snatch back his emeralds and seize the reins before he and the huge
white wishing horse, without leaving even a rustle in the quiet air,
had gone, vanished and completely disappeared from Skampavia.




CHAPTER 5

A Great Celebration in Oz


"Why all the crown jewels, old Toz?" Resting his chin on the window
ledge, Highboy looked inquiringly into the dressing room of Joe King,
ruler of the Gillikens and all of the purple countries of Oz. The
King's apartment was on the tenth floor of the royal palace, but this
made no difference to Highboy, for Highboy was a giant horse whose
telescope legs could be raised or lowered to any level, making him one
of the most amazing and amusing animals in Oz. "I say, are we going
anywhere in particular?" he drawled curiously as the King, decked out
in his best braided traveling coat and amethyst crown, surveyed himself
cheerfully in the long mirror.

"WE!" chuckled the merry monarch, turning round with a hearty roar.
"Ho, Ho, HO! And how do you know YOU are going?"

"Well, I see you are wearing your best purple boots, and when the King
of all the Gillikens wears his best purple boots, he usually rides his
best purple horse, does he not?"

"Right," admitted the King good naturedly. "And I might as well tell
you at once that we are going to the capital at the express invitation
of her Imperial Highness, Queen Ozma of Oz!" The King cleared his
throat importantly. "There is to be an immense festival to celebrate
the discovery of Oz by mortals, the honors to be equally divided
between the famous Wizard who arrived here in a balloon from Omaha many
years ago, and little Dorothy, who came by way of a Kansas cyclone
somewhat later. Not only will the rulers of all four Oz Kingdoms be
present, but many other important and Royal personages as well."

"Well? Well, indeed!" trumpeted the giant horse shrilly. "There you
stand all shined up like a door knob and never a word to me. How'll I
look? Why wasn't I told before? When do we start?"

"Just as soon as her Majesty decides what to wear and what to take with
her," answered the King with a solemn wink.

"Oh, then I'll have bushels of time." Highboy sighed heavily with
relief. "So we're invited to the Emerald City, eh? How perfectly perf,
how simply magnif. Billy! Tommy! JIM!!" As he called the name of each
little groom, Highboy let himself down a couple of stories and by the
time he reached a usual horse height and level on the ground, he had
ordered himself a bath, a mane wave, an oil shampoo, and a hooficure.
Indeed, Highboy's plans for the party went on apace and with the three
grooms pattering after him with buckets, brushes, and sponges, he
trotted anxiously up and down his great airy stable picking out his
most splendid saddle and bridle and silver-braided blanket for the
journey. The giant horse wished to make an impression that would uphold
if not enhance the honor and reputation of the Gillikens. He was eager
to renew his friendship with Trot, a little mortal girl who lived
in the palace and with Herby, the Medicine Man, and the many other
interesting characters he had met on a former visit to the capital.

In the Munchkin, Quadling, and Winkie Kingdoms there was also a lively
bustle and stir of preparation, and in many of the lesser Kingdoms the
Kings, Queens, and Potentates made ready for the great spring festival
in the Emerald City. And you can imagine the fun and excitement in
the capital itself. Everyone had some special part in the program,
even the dogs and cats ran importantly about on countless errands
like small messengers, their ears and tails quivering with interest
and expectancy. After the visitors had been officially welcomed at
the gates of the city, there was to be an imperial procession with
bands, floats and favors for everybody. Then there were to be games,
races, and other exciting athletic events and a grand banquet in the
Royal Palace. A magic lantern ball in Ozma's garden would complete the
festivities for the first day. For the second, pageants and tableaux
depicting the important and historical events of Ozian history had
been arranged for the morning. Notta Bit More, a circus clown who had
come to Oz from Philadelphia, was putting on an outdoor circus in the
afternoon, helped by Bob Up, the orphan who had come with him, and all
the famous animals in the Emerald City. From the squeals, shouts, and
hilarious chuckles issuing from the huge white tent set just beyond the
city wall, it promised to be an unqualified success.

After the circus, Ozma had planned a picnic supper on the banks of
the Winkie River, to be followed by demonstrations in magic by the
Wizard of Oz and Glinda, the Good Sorceress of the South, and last,
but not least, a lavish display of fireworks sent especially for the
grand occasion by Happy Toko, Emperor of the Silver Isles. No wonder
the children in the Emerald City could think of nothing but the
coming celebration. No wonder Dorothy, Trot, and Bettsy Bobbin, the
little mortals who lived in the great palace and were Princesses in
their own right, were too busy to think of their titles or bother with
their crowns. Dorothy, the first of the three to reach the capital,
was Ozma's favorite companion, and Dorothy was perhaps the busiest of
all. Not only had she planned all the tableaux and pageants, but had
entire charge of decorating the palace and the Emerald City as well.
The Scarecrow, whom Dorothy had discovered on her earliest trip to Oz,
was her most willing and tireless assistant. This lively straw-stuffed
gentleman had brains given him by the Wizard and was in high favor
and constant demand because of his natural cheerfulness and amiable
disposition.

At the moment, he and Dorothy were superintending the erection of a
floral arch over the great jeweled gates of the City. This arch, grown
and tended by the Wizard, was so magically compounded that as each
visitor rode through the gateway a ribbon-tied bouquet of fragrant
spring flowers dropped lightly into his or her lap. Dorothy and the
Scarecrow had tried it out to their complete delight and satisfaction,
and now clasping their large bouquets, watched three energetic little
gardeners tie up the last tendrils of the magic vine to the gaily
painted arbor.

"You know," said Dorothy, peering over the flower tops at the
Scarecrow, "I can hardly wait till tomorrow. To think we'll be seeing
Sir Hokus and Ojo and Unk Nunkie and Urtha and Prince Tatters and all
the others--"

"And they'll be seeing us, too, remember that," beamed the Scarecrow,
closing one cotton eye. "And now, if you think you can manage for a
few minutes without me, I had better go and study up on my speech of
welcome."

"Oh--are YOU making the speech of welcome? How grand! How thrilling!"
Dorothy gazed admiringly up at her oldest friend in Oz.

"Yes, and I'm also making the speech awarding medals to the Discoverers
of our country," confided the Scarecrow, thrusting out his chin and
striking an attitude. "How will you feel when I pin that medal on your
chest, my girl?"

"Well," sighed Dorothy, looking dreamily over her bouquet, "I couldn't
feel any happier than I do now, but it certainly will be a great honor,
Scarecrow."

"A great honor! Well, I should snickerty wicker. But what if I forget
my speech right in the middle of a word!" The Scarecrow pushed back his
old blue hat and puckered up his forehead anxiously. "How will I feel
with all those Kings and Queens staring right at me? Really, I think
Ozma had better have someone else make the speeches."

"Oh, go along with you," laughed Dorothy, giving him a little push.
"Haven't you magic brains? You'll be a splendid speechmaker."

"Do you think so? Well, I'll do my best." Somewhat reassured, the
Scarecrow patted Dorothy on the shoulder and started off through the
park. Dorothy could tell from the way he flung his arms about that he
was rehearsing, and with an amused little smile she hurried back to
the palace to put the finishing touches to the decorations for Ozma's
throne room. Half way there, she met the Hungry Tiger carrying a large
basket in his teeth and followed by ten little kitchen boys, also
bearing enormous baskets.

"Good gracious, Tige, what's this?" Dorothy stared at the little
procession in surprise. The Hungry Tiger and Cowardly Lion have lived
in the Emerald City almost as long as Dorothy and though the tiger's
appetite is tremendous and he is always threatening to eat a fat baby,
he has never yet done it and is tame as Dorothy's pet kitten Eureka.

"Oh, hadn't you heard?" The Hungry Tiger set down his basket and
smoothed back his whiskers complacently. "I'm the head of the
reception committee for all visiting animals and am on my way now to
buy refreshments for the great banquet and picnic. And trust me," he
gave Dorothy a broad wink, "to do it right. Just let me see that list,
Kapo." Taking a long slip from the first kitchen boy, he began to drone
off the names of the capital's famous four-footed citizens and then the
list of visitors.

"Of course, there must be meat for the Cowardly Lion and myself," mused
the Tiger, blinking his eyes sleepily. "Then there's Hank, Bettsy
Bobbin's Mule, and Doubty, that dromedary you and Sir Hokus brought
back from one of those strange journeys; and we mustn't forget Peter's
Iffin, though he doesn't eat much. Put down a box of violets and
geraniums for the Iffin, Kapo, my lad. Ozma's Saw Horse and the Woozy
being of wood don't care for food, but that fine pink pig Pigasus eats
enough for a dozen horses, and Toto, your little dog, and Billina must
be taken care of too, and Scrap's bear, Grumpy."

"Of course," agreed Dorothy, leaning her elbow on the Tiger's back so
she could read the list over his shoulder. "But they all live here.
Who's coming from foreign parts, Tiger?"

"Well," confided the Tiger, "you'll be glad to know our old friend the
Comfortable Camel is making the trip with Hokus, I mean the Yellow
Knight, and Marygolden, the Princess he married, is riding a warhorse
named Stampedro. The King and Queen of the Gillikens will make the trip
on the Giant Horse (quite a lot of horses, aren't there), and I hope
Highboy keeps his legs in bounds. It makes me nervous to see a creature
one height one minute and another height the next. You knew the Prince
of Pumperdink was bringing Kabumpo, the Elegant Elephant?"

"Don't you mean that Kabumpo is bringing him?" put in Dorothy
mischievously, "and won't you be glad to see him again?"

"Yes, I'll be glad enough to see him," murmured the Tiger, "but feeding
him is quite a big problem."

"Well, you're just the one to do it," said Dorothy, smoothing away the
wrinkle between the Tiger's pointed ears. "You have such a big appetite
yourself, you'd know just how hungry an elephant would feel. I see
you've got Roger down, too."

"I'm pretty sure King Ato will bring his Read Bird, so I'm ordering a
dozen boxes of animal crackers for Roger and a barrel of apples for
Snufferbux."

"I wonder if he'll dance for us." Dorothy's eyes brightened, for she
had taken a great fancy to the faithful bear with whom Ojo had traveled
all over Oz. "He's bound to be jolly and full of fun."

"And hungry as a bear," sighed the Tiger with a worried frown. "But
that is easy compared to a dragon. King Cheeriobed is bringing a
dragon, and this dragon's on a diet of mustard and sulphur--think
of that, my child, and SAY--I'd best get along or I'll never get my
marketing done."

"And I must go, too," said Dorothy, reminded of her many
responsibilities. So, giving the Tiger's ear an affectionate pull, she
ran all the way back to the palace. In the throne room she found Ozma
and Tik Tok in a quiet conference.

"I've made Tik Tok Master of Ceremonies," said Ozma, looking up with
a smile of welcome, "because he never forgets what he's wound up to
remember."

"And I'll be sure to keep him wound up," promised Dorothy, patting the
machine man on his copper shoulder. Tik Tok was another of Dorothy's
discoveries and had been manufactured by a magician to be a slave of
the King of Ev, but here he was, thanks to Dorothy, enjoying a life of
interest and ease in the capital. Tik Tok could talk, think, and move
about as well as anyone when he was wound, and was much more reliable
and tireless than a real person.

"I am to an-nounce the vis-i-tors as they en-ter the pal-ace and
per-son-a-al-ly con-duct them to their roy-al quar-ters," Tik Tok
told Dorothy in his slow and precise manner. "Oz-ma can de-pend on me
ab-so-lute-ly and ev-e-ry thing will go like clock-work." With two
stiff bows and ticking with importance, the metal man marched proudly
from the room.

"Like clock-work. Ha, ha! did you hear that, and why not with a
clock-work man in charge? Oh, Ozma, doesn't it all look grand and
gorgeous?" Clasping the little Queen around her slender waist, Dorothy
gazed around the beautiful throne room. Every window and doorway
was garlanded with flowers, while hundreds of palms, ferns, and
fluttering silk pennants gave it an unwonted look of pomp and ceremony.
"Let--me--see," mused Dorothy, straightening the folds of a white
satin curtain. "I'm to stand on your right, Bettsy Bobbin and Trot on
your left, and the Patchwork Girl is to hold your train at the grand
reception. Do you think you can trust her, Ozma? She'll probably try to
jump rope or wave it like a handkerchief."

"Oh, Scraps is pretty good, considering her giddy make up," observed
Ozma with a little smile, "and she would be so disappointed not to be
with us. I'm sure I can trust her--at least for a little while."

"Trust me? Trust me? You disgust me," shouted a merry voice and Scraps,
who had been peeking through the curtains at the back of the room, took
a long running slide, landing in an unladylike heap at the foot of the
dais leading to the throne. Scraps, made from an old crazy quilt and
stuffed with cotton, had been brought to life by a magician to serve
his wife, but the Patch Work Girl had come to the Emerald City with Ojo
and never returned to her creators, scorning the humble career of a
maid servant. She was so gay and amusing Ozma had allowed her to remain
at the palace.

"Must I go in training to hold a train?" she demanded, springing to her
feet and striking so comical an attitude both Dorothy and Ozma had to
laugh.

"Of course not," said Ozma kindly, "just be careful and do not do any
gymnastics during the reception."

"Oh, I'll be careful and so dignified I'll probably split a seam, but
wait till you see the grand-aerial-balance-defying stunt I'm to put on
for the big show," puffed Scraps, snapping her button eyes boastfully.
"I'm to walk the tight rope in Notta's circus, so SO long, girls, I
must go and practice."

"Well, even if she falls it won't matter," remarked Dorothy with a
slight shudder as the Patch Work Girl jumped recklessly out of the
window, and picking herself up set off for the circus grounds on the
edge of the park.

"Oh, Ozma, with all the interesting people here already and with all
the grand and exciting ones who are coming, I believe we'll have the
best time we've ever had since Oz was discovered."

"Are you glad you discovered us?" Giving her an affectionate squeeze,
Ozma linked her arm through Dorothy's. "Let's see how the Wizard is
getting on with his tricks for the picnic."

Dorothy nodded eagerly, and hand in hand the two girls hurried across
the corridor to the laboratory of the wonderful Wizard of Oz.




CHAPTER 6

A Strange Warning


The first day of the grand celebration dawned clear and bright. The
Emerald City had never seemed more sparkling or fair. Flags fluttered
from every tower and turret of the palace; each house wore a garland
of flowers and flaunted a dozen silken banners in the fresh spring
breeze. The streets were alive with Ozma's subjects suitably costumed
for the big parade, and when, shortly after noon, the Royal Visitors
began to arrive, the castle bells broke into a joyous tolling, the
hundred bands struck up the Oz National Anthem and the magnificent and
beautiful floats began to swing into line.

The Scarecrow's address of welcome at the City Gates had been greeted
with wild enthusiasm and applause, and now, happy but somewhat
breathless, the indefatigable Straw Man mounted on the Saw Horse was
leading the illustrious Guests into the City, where they were to join
the Royal Procession and proceed in triumph to the West Gardens of
the park. What shouts and cheers went up from the happy throngs as
that impressive company in their glittering coaches or riding their
favorite steeds moved majestically through the emerald-studded streets
of the capital. Directly following the Scarecrow, all in red and
wearing her tallest ruby crown, was Glinda the Good Sorceress of the
South, her swan-drawn chariot seeming to float by itself. Marching
cheerfully after the Ruler of the Quadlings came Nick Chopper the
Nickel Plated Emperor of the Winkies, polished to the highest degree
but democratically afoot, marching in the center of his ten splendid
uniformed Winkie Guards. A few steps behind the Tin Woodman, and
prancing along in hardly restrained exuberance, was the Giant Horse,
proudly bearing Joe King and Queen Hyacinth, King and Queen of the
Gillikens. And Highboy not only carried his own head high, but he had
elevated his sovereigns above everyone else in the procession so that
none could miss the happily smiling rulers of the North.

A dazzling blue dragon had pulled the coach of King Cheeriobed, Queen
Orin and Prince Philador all the way from Sapphire City, and an
eye-filling sight was the Royal Family of the Munchkins. Kabumpo, the
Elegant Elephant, resplendent in his jeweled robe, swayed haughtily
along after Cheeriobed's blue coach, waving his trunk in a dignified
way to his friends in the crowd. In the canopied seat on his back rode
Prince Pompadore and Peg Amy of Pumperdink, easily the handsomest young
couple in Oz.

Peering mischievously out the side of his gaily painted jinrikisha was
the merry Red Jinn, himself, and no one could view the rotund little
Wizard of Ev without feeling happier. Jinnicky's body was a great
red jar. He wore the lid for a hat and when he grew bored or sleepy
he would simply retire into himself like a turtle. But now he did
not feel at all like retiring and was showering ginger cookies right
and left and simply beaming with interest and jollity. The King and
Queen of Ragbad rolled briskly along in their shabby but comfortable
open coach. With them were Prince Tatters, Urtha, his flowery little
Princess, and Grandpa, an old Soldier with a wooden leg, who had gone
through many wars and hardships for the sake of his country. But the
shout that greeted the Yellow Knight was loudest and longest of all.
The Prince of Corumbia had lived in the Emerald City for many years as
Sir Hokus of Pokes, before he was disenchanted and became the young and
charming husband of Princess Marygolden of Corabia. Sir Hokus rode
the Comfortable Camel, and Camy, who had also spent part of his life
in the capital, came in for his full share of the cheering. Princess
Marygolden was mounted on Stampedro, the Knight's great stamping war
horse, and Stampedro was a sight to make any little boy's heart beat
faster.

Ato, King of the Octagon Isles, and Samuel Salt, a reformed Pirate, now
Royal Discoverer and Explorer for the Crown, traveled together in Ato's
Octagon Chariot drawn by eight prancing black horses with eight footmen
in eight-sided hats on the high seat behind his merry little Majesty.
Roger, the Read Bird, perched proudly on the King's shoulder, reading
out the signs and street names as they bowled merrily over the gold
paving stones, and chuckling to himself in eight different languages.

Last, but by no means least, came the King and Queen of Seebania, the
King's uncle, better known in the Emerald City as Unc Nunkie, and the
King's son Ojo. The King and Queen were seated sedately in the Silver
Coach of Seebania, but Ojo and his pet bear Snufferbux were proudly
mounted on the back of Roganda, Queen of the Unicorns. This handsome
snow white beast, who had happened to be visiting Ojo at the time,
could not only send her horn darting out like a lance, but could
blow it as well. The sound of its clear, bell-like notes made many a
trumpeter in Ozma's band turn round with surprise and envy. Drawn up
to meet her impressive visitors was Ozma herself. The Royal Float of
Her Imperial Highness was formed like a sea shell. On an uncut emerald
in the center sat the little Ruler of all the Ozians dressed in a
shimmering white robe, wearing her flashing emerald crown and never in
all the thousand years of her young life had this lovely young fairy
looked more beautiful. Also in white were her attendants, Dorothy,
Bettsy, and Trot, each wearing an emerald circlet and carrying a long
wand draped with spring flowers.

As the Scarecrow brought his bright cavalcade to a triumphant halt,
Ozma's float, drawn by the Hungry Tiger and the Cowardly Lion, swung
into place at the head of the line. The other Emerald City Floats,
first waiting for the Royal Equipages and mounts of the visitors to
pass, swept after them in a burst of music and color. The Wizard of
Oz had chosen a huge revolving green ball on which the nimble little
necromancer ably kept his balance as he propelled himself along. After
him came Jack Pumpkinhead, riding the Iffin. Herby, the Medicine Man,
clinging precariously to the Doubtful Dromedary's hump, the pills and
boxes in his medicine chest rattling like castanets, was another figure
of interest. The float of Notta Bit More represented a circus ring, and
the antics of the clown, Pigasus, Bob Up, Scraps, Hank and Grumpy, The
Patch Work Girl's bear, kept the onlookers in a gale of hilarity.

Tik Tok had rigged up a mechanical handcar, which he operated himself.
Benny, the live statue of a public Benefactor, who had come to Oz
from Boston, strode solidly along, an expression of pride and deep
satisfaction on his well-carved features. Beside Benny marched the
Soldier with Green Whiskers, looking neither to the left or right, as
became a man who represented in his own person the whole and entire
army of Oz. I have only mentioned the most outstanding of the Emerald
City paraders. Besides these, there were countless marchers and
hundreds of miniature castles, ships, huge make-believe sea serpents
and dragons, and in a blaze of color and harmony they wound through the
streets of the capital, ending up in the West Gardens of the palace,
where the boys and girls from Professor Wogglebug's Athletic College
distinguished themselves in a series of gymnastic displays and the
Scarecrow established an all-time record for pole vaulting.

By the time Ozma had awarded the cups and trophies, the sun had begun
to slip down behind the treetops, and in high spirits and with splendid
appetites the Royal Party and the Royal Guests turned toward the
castle. Here Tik Tok, who had hurried on ahead, nobly discharged his
duties as Master of Ceremonies. The Cowardly Lion did the honors for
the Four Footed visitors, leading each to an airy shower-equipped stall
in the Royal Stable, so they could rest and refresh themselves before
the Grand Banquet. And how shall I do justice to that dazzling affair?

For the first time in its history the magnificent Dining Hall was
filled to capacity. Easily as large as a city park, there was just
room for the two long, sparkling, flower-laden banquet tables, the
first for Ozma's courtiers and guests, the second for the palace pets
and visiting animals. The Scarecrow caused a roar of hilarity as the
diners took their places by donning a pair of dark spectacles to
prevent eye-strain from the flashing of so many jewels and crowns.
With each course of the long delicious dinner Ozma had a different
King, Queen, or Celebrity at her side, and so cleverly had it all been
arranged, each guest had the honor of sitting for a time beside the
Kingdom's Little Fairy Ruler. Soft music floated down from the balcony
where the Royal orchestra was concealed behind a bower of palms. The
bright robes and jewels of the banqueters and the emerald and silver
dinner service twinkled and sparkled in the magic glow of a thousand
candles. The hundred footmen were swift and skillful, the speeches were
short and merry, "and never," thought Dorothy, looking around with a
little thrill of satisfaction, "never has there been so grand and yet
delightful a party!"

The Hungry Tiger had remembered the tastes and appetites of each of his
guests, and not only were they served with the same dainties enjoyed by
the Two Footed visitors, but every one had a special dish of his own.
Even the Dragon seemed to enjoy immensely his matches and mustard, then
called in a hoarse voice for three pails of hot coals, after which he
blew a whole series of smoke rings and went comfortably to sleep.

Dorothy and the Wizard had with due modesty accepted their medals for
their discovery of Oz and the whole company on its feet for this
impressive ceremony were suddenly startled by a shrill scream from the
Patch Work Girl.

"His beard! His beard! Look at his beard!" yodeled Scraps. (Yes,
I think "yodel" best describes the excited noise made by this
irrepressible maiden.)

"His beard, I said, it's turning RED!" At the word "beard" every eye
turned to the Soldier with Green Whiskers, for his beard was the
longest and most celebrated in Oz.

"Why, so it is!" exclaimed Dorothy in astonishment.

"Red?" choked the Solider, desperately clutching his famous whiskers.
"Oh! Oh! My beautiful green beard--it's red as fire. Oh! Oh! How can I
ever be the Soldier with Green Whiskers if my beard stays red? Who did
this? Wizard! Wizard, are you playing a trick on me?"

"Certainly not, Soldier. I'd be the last person to tamper with
your sacred beard. Quiet, please! Quiet! This is extremely odd and
disturbing." Jumping on his chair, the Little Wizard of Oz looked
anxiously around the room.

"Do they hurt? Are red whiskers painful?" asked Scraps, while the Royal
guests, hardly knowing whether to laugh or sympathize, gazed curiously
at the blazing beard of the Army of Oz.

"They--they hurt my feelings," blubbered the poor Soldier, holding out
his bristling whiskers in disgust. "I'll never get used to a red beard.
Never! Never!"

"Why not cut it off?" inquired Prince Pompadore, with some difficulty
controlling his chuckles.

"What? Cut off my beautiful whiskers? Why, why, I'd rather lose my
head," moaned the Soldier with a horrified shudder. "How would I look?
How would I fight? Oh! Oh! This is ridiculous!" Burying his face in
his napkin, Ozma's distracted army rushed violently from the room.

"Red-iculous, if you ask me," observed the Scarecrow in his droll voice.

"No, no, it's MAGIC!" muttered the Wizard, stepping briskly down from
his chair. "Wait, I must consult my book of red magic and portents."

"And I'll go with you," offered Jinnicky, rolling quickly out of his
cushioned seat. "You know RED magic is my specialty." So, arm in arm,
the Wizard of Oz and the Wizard of Ev bustled away together.

"Well, I can tell you what it means without consulting any books,"
said the Scarecrow as Ozma, looking rather troubled, again took her
place and motioned for the others to do the same. "It is a warning,"
declared the Scarecrow, raising his arm stiffly. "Someone is coming to
beard us in our den (pardon such an informal reference to your castle,
my dear,)" he made an apologetic little bow to Ozma and then continued
seriously, "a danger from without threatens the Kingdom of Oz."

"Who would dare threaten the sovereignty of our country?" demanded the
Yellow Knight, brandishing his sword.

"What's up? What's up?" neighed Highboy, elevating himself so suddenly
he cracked his head against the ceiling.

"You should know, being so high," chuckled the Scarecrow, who could not
resist a joke even when he was most serious. "But calm yourself, my
good horse, you are not in danger yet." Danger! The short, ugly word
dropped like a bomb into that gay and carefree assemblage. Dorothy,
with a little pang of dismay, saw the Cowardly Lion creeping under the
table, and feeling in her pocket for her handkerchief drew out instead
one of the Wizard's wishing pills. He had given it to her so she could
visit the corn ear palace of the Scarecrow the following week and do it
by simply wishing herself there instead of making the journey. Dorothy
fingered the pill thoughtfully for a minute or two, then with a sudden
quick motion popped the small tablet into her mouth.

"Whatever happens, help me to save Ozma and Oz," murmured Dorothy, and
swallowing the pill, she looked sharply around the room for further
signs of warning or disaster.




CHAPTER 7

What Wizard?


At first, everything seemed as usual. Then, turning to ask the Tin
Woodman a question, Dorothy was annoyed to discover that his chair was
pushed back and he was nowhere in sight.

"Oh, he's probably helping the Wizard," decided Dorothy, and had no
sooner come to this comforting conclusion before she gave a second
start of alarm. Glinda, the Good Sorceress, was no longer in her seat
at the foot of the table, and running her eye hurriedly down the
glittering board, Dorothy saw five more empty places. Pressing a
finger to her forehead, Dorothy tried to remember who had been sitting
in the five deserted chairs. Surely Joe King and Queen Hyacinth had
been there between Bettsy Bobbin and Trot, while Prince Philador, Queen
Orin and King Cheeriobed had been directly opposite.

"Good Gillikens!" gasped the little girl, jumping quickly to her feet.
"The rulers of all four Oz countries are gone and Highboy's gone, too."
And strangely enough, nobody seemed to have missed them. Instead, they
were listening with broad smiles and appreciatively tapping toes to the
loud and hilarious singing of the Patch Work Girl. Scraps, thinking
it a shame to let a mere change of whiskers spoil a good party, was
enlivening the company with her newest and most comical rhymes. So
loud was her voice and the applause of the banqueters, Dorothy found
it impossible to make herself heard, so, running around to the back of
the Scarecrow's chair, she tugged him anxiously by the arm. "Scarecrow!
Scarecrow!" whispered Dorothy hoarsely, "Where are the Four Rulers of
Oz, and whatever can be keeping the Wizard so long?" Tearing his gaze
reluctantly from the Patch Work Girl, the Scarecrow looked dreamily
over his shoulder.

"WHAT WIZARD?" he inquired blankly.

"THE Wizard, OUR Wizard, the wonderful Wizard of Oz." Dorothy stamped
her foot and almost shouted with surprise and vexation.

"Never heard of him," declared the Scarecrow, smiling blandly down at
her. "Now, why not sit quietly down and listen to Scraps? She's never
been funnier. Ha! Ha! Ha! Never funnier!" Dorothy was so stunned and
dumbfounded by the Scarecrow's statement about the Wizard, she opened
and closed her mouth several times without saying anything.

"Mercy, I'd better tell Ozma about this," she thought distractedly,
and swinging round abruptly she scurried along back of the diners till
she came to the head of the table. "Oh, Ozma!" panted the little girl
breathlessly--then stopped short. There was no one in Ozma's great
dragon armed chair of state. The Yellow Knight and Prince Pompadore,
who for the last course were in the seats of honor beside the little
Queen, leaned unconcernedly across her empty place, engaged in a long,
earnest argument about horses. They looked up in surprise as Dorothy,
her crown by this time very much on the side, bounced suddenly between
them. "Where's Ozma?" demanded the little girl, thumping her fist
sharply on the table.

"Ozma?" The Yellow Knight and Prince Pompa exchanged an uneasy glance.
"Who is Ozma?" asked Prince Pompadore curiously.

"Oh! Oh, I think you all are perfectly horrid. Stop joking! Stop
teasing me!" cried Dorothy, and as both Princes in frank amazement
jumped up to try to comfort her, she rushed angrily from the room.
As she fled along the green corridor she could still hear Scraps
singing and the shouts and cheers of her listeners. "This is
terrible--terrible!" wailed Dorothy, and running blindly down the long
hall she burst through the swinging doors of the Wizard's laboratory.
What she had expected to find Dorothy hardly knew. Really, she was
hoping to see Ozma and the four other rulers grouped around the
Wizard's green table. But only a blank suffocating silence answered
her frantic call for the Wizard. Frightened into silence herself,
Dorothy tiptoed from one end to the other of the long, curiously
appointed apartment, peering into cupboards, under sofas and back of
screens. Where was the Red Jinn? Where was the Little Wizard of Oz?
Not here certainly. Not in the Banquet Hall. But the THRONE ROOM!
THERE she would find all of her missing friends conferring with Ozma
over the threatened danger to the realm. With a little gasp of relief,
she darted across the corridor into the vast and magnificent Hall of
Justice where Ozma received visitors, settled disputes, and carried on
all the important business of governing.

They were not in the sumptuous presence chamber, but at least the
throne was not empty. No--no, indeed! Dorothy looked once, rubbed her
eyes--looked again, and then, giving a shrill scream of terror, flung
both arms round one of the emerald studded pillars. An immense white
horse was sitting on the throne of Oz. A great fat King was sitting
on the horse, or rather, clinging desperately to his neck. Dorothy knew
he was a King by the crown perched ridiculously on the side of his
head. That crown seemed oddly familiar, and after another horrified
glance Dorothy screamed again, for it was the splendid emerald circlet
belonging to Ozma of Oz.

Her screams seemed to rouse the two occupants of the throne, who, to be
perfectly frank, looked as dazed and stupefied as Dorothy herself.

"Go away!" sputtered the fat King, waving his arms irritably. "Go away,
little girl, and don't bother me."

"And kindly bow as you leave," directed the White Horse, lifting one
foot sternly. "You are looking at the Emperor of Oz and his Imperial
Charger." Bowing more from astonishment than intention, Dorothy backed
a few steps, then turned round and ran madly toward the Royal Banquet
Hall.




CHAPTER 8

Way for the Emperor!


"Here, give her water! Give her air! Stand back, everybody. Now, then,
what's the matter, child?" The Scarecrow bent solicitously over the
little girl who had rushed into the banquet hall screaming hysterically
about disappearances and white horses and fallen breathlessly into
the chair beside him. "Come, tell uncle all about it," begged the
Scarecrow, patting Dorothy clumsily on the head.

"Tell you!" choked poor Dorothy, twisting her best handkerchief into a
hard knot. "Do I have to tell you? Can't you see for yourselves that
Ozma is missing, that the Wizard and Jinnicky are gone, that Glinda and
the Tin Woodman, that the King and Queen of the Gillikens and the King
and Queen of the Munchkins have vanished entirely! And yet, here you
sit, singing and laughing as if nothing at all had happened. Can't you
understand that something dreadful has happened to Ozma and that a big,
fat, funny-looking man and a white horse are sitting on the throne of
Oz?"

"Ozma, Ozma--who's she?" murmured the banqueters, looking vaguely at
Dorothy and then at each other.

"She's feverish, that's what." Herby, the Medicine Man, leaned over to
touch Dorothy expertly on the forehead. "I'd advise you to go upstairs
and lie down, my dear."

"Yes, why don't you?" urged Bettsy Bobbin, coming over to put her arm
around Dorothy's waist. "I'll go up with you and lend you my very best
smelling salts."

"Lie down--with that big fat interloper on the throne of Oz!" wailed
Dorothy. Squirming out of Bettsy's embrace, she started indignantly
to her feet. "You must be crazy! Camy! Kabumpo! Snufferbux! Toto!
You--you'll believe me, won't you?" Hurrying over to the second table,
Dorothy looked pleadingly down the long board from the Hungry Tiger at
the head to the Cowardly Lion at the foot.

"There, there," mumbled Kabumpo, lifting Dorothy up in his trunk.
"Don't go on so, my dear, we all have these little funny spells. Here,
sit up on my back so you'll have a good view of the Emperor when he
arrives. Hi--there he comes now! Ray! Ray! Way for Skamperoo, Emperor
of Oz!" Waving Dorothy in his trunk as if she had been a flag, Kabumpo
plopped down on his knees and banged his big head three times on the
polished floor. From her precarious position Dorothy saw the same fat
imposter who had been in the throne room riding his white charger
pompously into the Banquet Hall, the horse nodding to the left and
right and grinning like a Cheshire Cat.

Cheers, bows and a loud burst of applause and music made his entry so
noisy Dorothy's angry protests and cries were entirely drowned out.
Disgusted, confused and completely bewildered by the behavior of Ozma's
subjects and her own best friends, Dorothy jerked away from Kabumpo
and darted through a long French window into the garden. What could
it mean? What could have happened? Had all her former memories of Oz
been a dream? No, no! Violently Dorothy decided against such an idea.
Rather was this fat emperor a dream--a maddening nightmare from which
she would presently awaken. Leaning dizzily against a golden faun set
near a crystal garden pool, Dorothy tried to find some reasonable
explanation of the whole dreadful mixup. And here, several minutes
later, Pigasus, the winged Pig, found her.

"Thought a little fly over the tree tops might help your head," grunted
Pigasus, looking unhappily down his pink snout. "Nothing like a little
fly for a headache, my girl!"

"My head's all right," answered Dorothy sullenly. "It's the rest of
you who have lost your heads or your senses. How in Oz you could stand
in there cheering that big, fat fraud, I'll never, never understand.
Piggins, Piggins, dear--" Dorothy bent coaxingly over him--"surely you
remember Ozma and the Wizard and Glinda." Instead of answering at once,
Pigasus stared thoughtfully at his reflection in the pool.

"Suppose you sit on my back and then we can talk without being heard,"
he suggested brightly. "Up in the air we can air our views in safety,
as it were."

"To tell the truth, I don't much care where I go now," sighed Dorothy,
seating herself disconsolately on the pig's broad back.

    "Hey Hey, we're bewitched and enchanted, I knew it!
    With you on my back, I can think and see through it!"

squealed Pigasus, and flapping his huge wings he soared high over the
flowering plum trees in Ozma's garden.

    "Of course Ozma's Queen, not this big Skamperoo
    The Ruler of Oz and the whole royal crew
    Have been kidnapped--bewitched, or put out of the way--
    We'll fly off for help and we'll start right away."

"Oh, Piggins!" Dorothy threw both arms round the pig's neck and almost
wept for joy:

    "Oh Pigasus to think you remember them, too,
    But where have they gone? What in Oz shall we do?"

    "We'll find them, wherever they are they'll be found,
    But we'd best make our plans with our feet on the ground,"

muttered Pigasus, looking below for a likely spot to land. There was
one disadvantage about Pigasus, though some did not regard it as such.
Like the winged horse Pegasus, whoever caught him and rode on his
back at once became a poet and unable to speak anything but rhymes.
The poetic pig could not only tell what they were thinking, but he
often spoke his own mind in verse as well. At times this grew terribly
tiresome, but except for his jingles, a more cheerful loyal little
fellow could not be found in the length or breadth of the country.
Raised and bred by the Red Jinn, he had been given to the Duke of
Dork. The Duke had given him to the Philadelphia boy, Peter, who in
the course of a voyage with Samuel Salt, the Pirate, had captured the
Duke's splendid castle boat. The capture had been quite a social and
friendly affair and the Duke had traded Pigasus for a Bananny Goat.
Peter had later brought the flying pig to the Emerald City, where he
was petted and admired by the whole court.

Now, slanting down into a quiet grove, Pigasus came to a gentle stop
and Dorothy tumbled jubilantly off his back.

"Oh, Pigasus, isn't it lucky you were in the Emerald City? Nobody else
can remember Ozma or the others at all."

"And I only remembered them because you sat on my back," confessed the
pig, twitching his nose thoughtfully. "It was my thought-reading gift
that did the trick, and I am more than ever convinced that we are
under some mischievous spell or enchantment. What I don't understand,
my dear, is how you yourself escaped or chanced to remember things as
they were. You know, before I came out here, it seemed perfectly right
and natural for that roly poly pudding of an Emperor to be sitting at
the head of the table. I knew no more about Ozma, or Glinda, or my
former master Jinnicky than a new-born baby. By the way, Jinnicky's
gone too, isn't he?"

"Yes," Dorothy shook her head sorrowfully, "and without him or the
Wizard to help we'll have a hard time, I guess. What shall we do first,
Piggins?"

"How about having a try at some of the Wizard's magic?" proposed the
pink pig, daringly, "then we might look in Ozma's magic picture and ask
it to show us where all of our missing friends are now."

"Now, why didn't I think of that myself?" cried Dorothy, and springing
up she started off on a run.

"Wait! Wait!" grunted Pigasus, pattering breathlessly after her.
"Remember, we must be very careful, my dear. No questions about Ozma,
no remarks that will arouse the anger of this scalawag Emperor, or
we'll both be clapped in a dungeon. We must pretend that we have
forgotten, too, and get away quietly later tonight."

This seemed so sensible a plan, Dorothy readily agreed to it, and
without attracting any attention at all they re-entered the palace and
hurried immediately to Ozma's small sitting room. But if they expected
the magic picture to solve their problem they were soon doomed to
disappointment. The picture was gone from its accustomed place and
the safe where Ozma kept her magic treasures and other valuables was
wide open and quite empty. A quick search of the Wizard's laboratory
proved equally discouraging. The Wizard's famous black bag was nowhere
in sight, the little hanging closet where he stored his transformation
powders and wishing pills was bare as the cupboard of old Mother
Hubbard.

"Whoever planned this thought of everything," wheezed Pigasus, sitting
heavily back on his haunches. "There is nothing here for us, Dorothy.
If I were you, I'd get a few things together and we'll leave right
away before anyone misses you." From the cheers, shouts, and hilarious
singing coming from the banquet hall it seemed probable that the
celebration would go on for hours. No one in that gay and foolish
company even thought of or missed the little girl and the pink pig
stealing so quietly through the dim halls of the palace.

"Ozma's palace," reflected Dorothy, looking resentfully over her
shoulder; but now it seemed strange, alien and completely unfriendly.
With a little shiver Dorothy drew her cloak more closely about her
and stepped resolutely out into the night. Pigasus pattered on ahead,
snorting a bit from sheer nervousness.

"Maybe we'd better fly," he grunted uneasily as Dorothy caught up with
him. "It's safer and it's faster, and the faster we get away from here
the better, I'm thinking."

"I've been thinking, too," answered Dorothy in a low voice, "perhaps
only the people in the Emerald City are under this forgetting spell,
Pigasus; perhaps if we fly to the Winkie Country, the Winkies will
remember their Emperor, the Tin Woodman, and will help us raise an
army so we can come back, conquer this old Skamperoo, and make him
tell where he has hidden all the proper rulers of Oz and the other
celebrities."

"That's the talk! That's the talk!" approved the pig, twinkling his
little blue eyes joyfully. "Up with you, up with you, my girl, but
remember, if you grow sleepy, let me know at once, so I can descend.
If you fall asleep, you might fall off my back, and think how I'd feel
then."

"Think how _I'd_ feel!" laughed Dorothy, her spirits lifting a bit at
the pink pig's comical conversation and enthusiastic seconding of her
plans. Seating herself carefully on his plump back, she quickly gave
the signal to start. Then up soared Pigasus, over the palace garden,
over the City Walls and away toward the East and the Yellow Lands of
the Winkies.

"Oh, I believe everything is going to be all right," thought Dorothy,
settling herself cozily between his wings.

"So do I," sniffed the pink pig, peering mischievously over his
shoulder.

    "I forgot you could read
    All the thoughts, Goodness Gracious!
    Of those on your back,
    Do you mind it Pigasus?"

"Not when they're nice thoughts like yours," puffed the little pig in
answer to Dorothy's surprised rhyme, and winking his eye jovially he
zoomed like a small pink Zeppelin through the sky.




CHAPTER 9

The Journey Begins


For several hours Pigasus flew without slackening his pace. Then,
as several suspicious little yawns and sighs floated past his keen
upstanding ears, he solemnly slanted downward. If he had chosen it on
purpose he could not have found a more comfortable place for Dorothy
to spend the night. They had already crossed the border and penetrated
far into the Land of the Winkies, and were now landing in the quiet
garden of a prosperous Winkie farmer. Set in the center of a dancing
bed of yellow daffodils and tulips stood a small summer house, and with
Dorothy rubbing her eyes sleepily, Pigasus trotted briskly into the
rustic cottage. The door was invitingly open and the moon lit up its
cozy one-roomed interior. Snorting with satisfaction, Pigasus pattered
over to a broad couch piled high with yellow cushions and, rolling
drowsily from his back, Dorothy burrowed contentedly into the center of
them, falling asleep before the pig reached his own bed, a soft woolly
rug on the hearth.

Pigasus slept lightly but well, and waking around six began to gaze
rather anxiously at the round yellow farm buildings just visible from
the door. The pink pig had had several unfortunate experiences with
farmers. They had a way of looking at his plump body that seemed
to reduce him at once to slices of bacon and sides of ham. One
enterprising fellow had actually caught him and shut him up in an
untidy pen. From this foolish prison Pigasus had escaped by spreading
his wings and flying away, but the mere mention of farmer gave him the
shivers. So now, moving impatiently about the little room, he waited
for Dorothy to awaken, and as she continued to slumber on, he flew
up over the mantel and swept a large yellow jug to the floor with
his wing. The crash of the falling jar aroused Dorothy at once, and
without stopping to explain, Pigasus suggested that they start off, and
Dorothy, not even noticing the broken jug, readily consented.

"We'll probably find a much better place to have breakfast as we fly
along," murmured Pigasus as Dorothy seated herself between his wings,
holding her small basket of supplies in her lap.

    "Would it do any harm to stop at the farm
    And enquire about Ozma and spread the alarm?"

asked Dorothy, who had rather counted on a cheerful breakfast at the
farm house.

"No, it wouldn't do any harm," answered Pigasus, rising in a straight
line from the tulip bed and winging rapidly over the yellow fields and
fences, "but neither would it do any good. Farmers never know what's
happening or going to happen. I tell you, though, we'll ask the first
person we meet."

    "Who would we meet in the air but a bird?
    Now really Pigasus, that's simply absurd."

"Some of the smartest people I know are birds," insisted the pig
stoutly. "Take Roger, for instance, he knows more than most of us have
forgotten. But look! A brook, a quiet wood! Stop! Listen! Look! For I
crave food!" Making a swift downward curve, Pigasus landed cleverly by
a rippling stream edged by some tall butternut trees. There were yellow
raspberries along the bank and the berries, with some of the sandwiches
Dorothy had brought with her, washed down by cool water from the brook
made a splendid breakfast.

"I wonder whether they'll have the tableaux and pageant without me,"
sighed Dorothy, biting slowly into a sardine sandwich, "and how'll they
manage the circus without you, Piggins, or the picnic supper without
Ozma, or the magic and fireworks without the Wizard."

"They've probably forgotten all about today's doings," mumbled Pigasus,
nosing busily among the leaves for ripe butternuts. "They'll probably
spend the time bumping their noses on the floor when that fat Emperor
comes waddling through the palace, and bending the right knee every
time his white horse sneezes or coughs. Pah!" Choking with indignation,
Pigasus began gobbling up so many butternuts, Dorothy feared he would
never be able to fly or walk again.

"Let's stay on the ground for awhile," she proposed, eyeing him rather
nervously as she packed the remaining sandwiches neatly back in the
basket. "I believe there's a path beyond those trees. Maybe it leads
to a town or village where we may meet someone who can tell us what we
want to know."

"You don't expect to find out where Ozma and the others are
hidden--straight off, do you?" Rubbing his back lazily against one of
the butternut trees, Pigasus looked quizzically at his earnest little
companion.

"No, I don't really expect that," said Dorothy, slipping the basket
over her arm, "but it would be pretty nice if we met somebody who even
remembered them, after all we've been through."

"I can hardly remember them myself unless you are sitting on my
back," admitted the pink pig, trotting soberly along at her side.
"This Emperor's magic must be strong medicine. Hello! Here comes a
fisherman." Pigasus pricked up both ears and his wings. "Shall I
question him or will you?"

Without bothering to answer, Dorothy ran eagerly toward the tall Winkie
who was coming leisurely along the path. He carried a basket and had
a fishing rod over his shoulder, and though his clothes were rough,
Dorothy could tell by his manner and bearing that he was a person of
some importance.

"Oh, please, Mr. Winkie," cried the little girl as he nodded politely
and would have passed them without stopping, "could you tell us who is
King here?"

"King?" answered the fisherman, taking his pipe out of his mouth
and looking kindly down at his small questioner. "Why, no one in
particular, my dear, but of course, we Winkies and the inhabitants
of the three other countries of Oz are governed from the capital by
Emperor Skamperoo, a great fellow, our Emp, and have you seen his white
horse?"

"Yes, I've seen it," said Dorothy, shutting her mouth rather grimly.

"But I thought Ozma was Queen?" wheezed Pigasus out of breath from
running after Dorothy and too many butternuts.

"Ozma? What a curious name," mused the fisherman, looking pensively
at the winged pig. "What gave you the idea that Ozma was our ruler?
Perhaps you are strangers here?"

"Well, it would seem so," puffed Pigasus, sitting down and panting a
little from sheer discouragement.

"Oh, you'll get used to us," laughed the fisherman with a breezy
wave. "Fine country, this; sorry I can't show you 'round, but as I've
promised my wife some fish for dinner, I'll have to be moving along.
Good day to you. Good day, little girl!"

"Good day," echoed Dorothy in a rather flat voice, as the fisherman,
lifting his hat, strode briskly into the wood. "You see!" she groaned.
"Even here everyone is bewitched. Oh, Piggins, what'll we do? No one in
Oz will help or believe us."

"Goose-tea and turnips! What if they don't!" Pigasus shook his head
impatiently. "There are other countries, aren't there? Take Ev, for
instance, or Rinkitink, or the Rose Kingdom. Why, there are lots of
places whose rulers will remember Ozma, my poor old friend Jinnicky and
the others. Come along, my girl, we've only just started.

    "While people roar for the Emperor
    We'll seek our rightful ruler
    From coast to coast from door to door
    Though foes grow cruel and crueller!

"What we need is some magic," finished Pigasus shrewdly. "Know a good
place to look for some?"

"The Gnome King has plenty of magic," reflected Dorothy, leaning
thoughtfully against a tree, "and Ozma and I really helped put him on
the throne, so surely he'll help us."

"Well, maybe, but I don't set great store by gnomes. They're tricky,
nevertheless we'll go to Ev and everywhere else till we restore this
country to its proper rulers." Pigasus looked so impressive with his
chest and cheeks puffed out with purpose, Dorothy gave him a quick hug.
"Down with the Emperor!" snorted Pigasus, though almost suffocated by
Dorothy's embrace. "And up with you, my patriotic young Princess."

"Now you make me feel like a real one. I'd almost forgotten I was a
Princess," smiled Dorothy, climbing obediently on his back. "I believe
everything will be better from now on."

"Well, it could be a lot worse," chuckled Pigasus, and flapping
his wings in a business-like manner, he rose gracefully into the
air and headed for the east. Rolling hills dotted with castles,
villages and towns, valleys, farm lands and forests flashed in an
ever-changing pleasant panorama below. At noon they came down beside
the Winkie River, finished up the rest of the sandwiches for lunch,
and then looked eagerly around for someone else to question. But the
yellow-bearded ferryman who presently came into sight poling his
old-fashioned raft across the turbulent river knew no more of Ozma and
the other rulers of Oz than the fisherman. But he told them many long
and boring stories of Skamperoo and his white horse Chalk. Dorothy
and Pigasus had to make such an effort to listen politely they were
relieved when he finally shoved off and began poling himself back to
the other side.

"Have you any idea how far we've come?" asked Pigasus, rolling over and
over in the cool grass as Dorothy made a face at the ferryman's back.

"Yes," said Dorothy, dropping full length beside him. "This river is in
about the center of the Winkie Kingdom, so we are easily half way. We
could reach the Deadly Desert by night, fly over tomorrow morning, and
either go North to Ev or stop at the underground castle of the Gnome
King. Even if Kalico won't lend us his army, he might lend us some
magic."

"Speaking of armies, they must have whisked the soldier with the green
whiskers off with the others. I don't remember seeing him after he
left the banquet hall, do you? Which just goes to show this Skamperoo
must be a stranger in Oz, for who else would have been afraid of our
precious old army? Why, he wouldn't even tread on a caterpillar. By
the way, has Kalico any magic that might tell us where to look for our
vanished friends and rulers?"

"I'm not sure of that," Dorothy told him dubiously, "but he has a
wizard, and Ruggedo who was King before Kalico had many magic treasures
and powers. He could make floors and walls spin round and round, open
yawning caverns at your feet or drop rocks down on your head without
even moving."

"Sounds lovely," sniffed Pigasus, coming to his feet with a short
grunt. "Say, haven't we trouble enough at home without going to
look for it? Do you really propose to visit this tricky little metal
monarch?"

"But Kalico is not nearly so bad as Ruggedo." Dorothy sat up and
smoothed her dress earnestly.

"Well, just as you wish," Pigasus shrugged his wings, "with me, people
are like eggs, either good, or bad. There's no such thing as a nearly
good egg, it's got to be completely good or it's just as bad as a bad
egg. D'ye see? And if this Gnome King is only as good as a nearly fresh
egg, I wouldn't trust him with my second best tooth brush. My idea
would be to go to the ruler of Ev."

"That's Evardo, a boy King. Ozma helped him, too," Dorothy explained
importantly. "But I tell you, Piggins, let's not decide till we cross
the Deadly Desert. Something might turn up before then. You never can
tell."

"No," agreed the pig, shaking his head sagely. "In Oz, you never can.
Suppose we continue a ways on foot? My wings are a bit stiff and we
really should be on the lookout for a friendly house or castle where we
could have supper and spend the night. I could eat a peck of spinach
or a bushel of apples right now, so hop up, my dear, and I'll stretch
a leg for the good of the coz and Oz!" Chattering away like the good
fellow he was, Pigasus trotted briskly across the fields and presently
came to a deep rustling forest. "Shall we fly over or walk through?"
questioned the pig, sniffing appreciatively the cool air drifting out
to them.

    "Let's go through it, in a wood
    There might be witches, some are good,
    A good witch with her magic powers
    Could solve this mystery of ours!"

"But suppose we meet a bad one," muttered Pigasus, stepping gingerly
into the forest and picking his way with great care between the giant
trees.

"Then we'll say goodbye and simply fly," laughed Dorothy, snapping her
fingers joyfully.

"Yes, but flying would not be so easy in here," objected Pigasus with a
troubled glance aloft, "these branches are interlocked so closely I'd
stick in a tree like a kite."

"Oh, we probably won't meet anyone," said Dorothy. Slipping off his
back, she walked along beside him, one arm flung cozily around his
neck. She was rather tired of making verses and thought she could think
better if her head were not continually buzzing with rhymes. After the
hot sunny meadows the cool shade of the forest was very welcome, but as
they advanced farther and farther into the shadows, it grew so dark and
grim the two began to look at each other in real alarm.

"Must be a squall or thunder shower brewing," observed Pigasus in a
faint voice.

"Yes, it couldn't be night time so soon," agreed Dorothy, looking
fearfully over her shoulder. The crackling of twigs as some large
animal made its way through the brush sounded like gun fire, and while
they were trying to make up their minds whether to run back or push
forward, a long hollow roar sent them scittering forward practically as
one. Missing trees by mere inches, they pelted at breakneck speed into
the dense and even gloomier stretch of woodland ahead.

"B-b-b-better climb on my back," directed Pigasus, halting at last from
lack of breath rather than inclination.

"But where are you? I can't even see you!" wailed Dorothy, feeling
about wildly.

"Here, here," grunted the frantic pig, making short dashes in four or
five directions and finally bumping violently into the groping little
girl.

Snatching at a wing, Dorothy pulled herself thankfully up and clasped
both arms round his neck. In a tense and breathless silence they
waited for it to grow lighter. They could not see even an inch before
their noses now, and the darkness and silence grew more oppressive and
unbearable every minute.

"J--j-j-just a cloud passing over," croaked Pigasus, trying to keep his
teeth from chattering. "J-j-j--j-j-j--say, what's that? Dorothy, do you
hear anything? F--f-footsteps--not four, TWO. Someone's coming. Hello,
there. Who are you? Watch out now, we're here."

"I see you," answered a flat, matter-of-fact voice.

    "Oh! He sees us yet we can't see him,
    I'm frightened deaf and dumb,
    Oh, try to fly, Pigasus, why
    Oh why'd we ever come?"

"That's what I'd like to know," went on the voice sternly. "Now, then,
will you come quietly or must I drag you along?"




CHAPTER 10

The Witch of the Black Forest


Dorothy and her companion were too stunned to answer, and in two
thumping steps the owner of the voice was upon them.

"Do you dare to defy a member of the Invincible Black Watch?" breathed
the stranger, grasping Pigasus roughly by the right wing.

"No! No! We don't exactly defy you," squealed the pig, flapping his
other wing frantically, "but how can we follow a blackguard whom we
cannot even see?"

"Then how do you know I am a blackguard?" demanded their captor
suspiciously.

"From your voice," screamed Pigasus, jerking this way and that way in
an effort to free himself. "I'd know you for a blackguard anywhere.
Unhand me, you surly black monster."

"You talk a lot for a fellow who cannot see," scoffed the Guard,
tightening his grip on the pig's wing. "Is the girl blind too?"

    "We're not blind at all and why should we be,
    In this horrid black forest how could we see?"

cried Dorothy, her indignation getting the better of her fright.

"Well, what color are your eyes?" Dorothy felt the hot breath of the
Guardsman on her neck as he leaned over to find out for himself.
"Blue!" he murmured in evident puzzlement. "And the pig's eyes are
blue, too. So _that's_ the reason."

"What has the color to do with it?" grunted Pigasus, growing a little
calmer as the conversation progressed without either of them coming to
actual harm.

"Everything," explained the Guard impressively. "In the Black Forest
one must have black eyes to see. See? Even a pig should know that."

"Well, I suppose I could run into a tree and black my eyes," sniffed
Pigasus bitterly. "But thank you, no. I prefer blue eyes and, now, if
you will kindly conduct us to the edge of this deep, dark, dangerous
and disgusting domain, we'll be delighted to go, leave, depart, and bid
you farewell forever."

"Oh, keep all that for Gloma," drawled the Guard indifferently. "I'm a
plain man and prefer plain language. Furthermore, no one leaves this
forest unless they break the black laws. If you break the law you are
cast out into the utter and awful light of eternal day. Now, then, come
along!" and giving the pig's wing a cruel tweak, he tramped doggedly
forward. Pigasus to save his precious feathers was obliged to come,
suiting his gait to the guard's strides.

"The best thing for us to do is to break the law at once," he whispered
mournfully to Dorothy as he blinked about in a desperate effort to
penetrate the gloom. Dorothy was too depressed to answer, and after
clearing his throat several times the Blackguard began to question
Pigasus.

"Why the wings?" he asked inquiringly. "I've seen many a farmyard
creature in my day, but never a pig with wings. Are you a pig or a kind
of balony bird? What right has a pig to wings?"

"Let go and I'll show you," puffed Pigasus, hoping the fellow's
curiosity would cause him to loosen his hold. But the Guard only
laughed at such an idea.

"Let you go? I should say not," he exclaimed with a little chuckle.
"You can show all your little tricks to Gloma and she can decide
whether to ride or roast you. This girl on your back will make a
splendid slave."

"Slave!" shrilled Pigasus, stumbling angrily along in the dark. "I'll
have you know that she is a Princess of Oz and lives in the palace of
Ozma of Oz."

"Then why did she not stay there?" observed the Guard reasonably
enough. "Anyone coming into this forest comes under the rule of Gloma,
Witch of the Black Forest."

"Witch?" coughed the pig, as Dorothy, tightening her clutch on his
neck, almost choked him.

"Yes, witch," repeated the forester calmly. "Now, then, hold up your
heads, you pale and pinky skins, for you are in for a good blacking."
And before Pigasus knew just what WAS happening the ground slipped away
from under him and he and Dorothy were plunged into the rough chilly
waters of a tumbling forest stream. Striking out with all four feet,
Pigasus managed to breast the flood, when he felt himself and Dorothy
being forced completely under. As a matter of fact, the Guard swimming
beside him had simply put his hand on Dorothy's head and pushed her
and the squealing pig beneath the surface. As they rose, gasping and
sputtering, he again seized Pigasus by the wing and pulled him quickly
to shore.

"There, now you're all right," he boomed heartily as Dorothy rolled off
the pig's back and began shaking the water from her eyes and hair and
wringing out her dripping skirts. "Just blot yourselves on the bank!"

"Bl-blot ourselves?" gurgled Pigasus, giving himself a violent shake.
"Do you take us for letters? You--you'll be sorry for this!" But right
in the middle of his angry sputters he gave a loud and astonished
squall. "Dorothy, Dorothy, I can see!" panted the pink pig exultantly.

"So can I," cried Dorothy, running excitedly toward him. "But
everything looks black--everything IS black, even you. Oh, Oh! You're
perfectly coal black, Piggins, am I black too?"

"Of course," answered the Guard in a bored voice, "and much better so.
Since you are black yourselves, you can see in the dark like the rest
of us, and what do you think of our forest now?" But Dorothy, instead
of telling him, held up her shiny black hands, touched a few strands
of her perfectly black hair, and then dropping her head on the pig's
shoulder began to weep bitterly. Like drops of ink the tears coursed
down her ebony cheeks, and though Pigasus did what he could to comfort
her, she continued to sob as if her heart would break.

"Well, I must say I call this ungrateful," the Guard shifted from one
foot to the other. "What's the matter with you, anyway? Black is a
splendid color, doesn't show dirt, doesn't fade or streak. Besides
it's against the law to be any other color in this forest."

"How dare you blacken us against our will?" burst out Pigasus
furiously. "Wait till I get loose, I'll--why, I'll tear you to pieces
and pitch you into a tar barrel."

"Oh, don't make me snort!" The huge Black Forester stared
contemptuously down at the winged pig, and now that Pigasus had a
better look at him he saw the folly of his threats, for the Black
Guard was well over six feet and lean and tough as black leather.
Evidently feeling he had wasted enough time on the pair, he gave them
a very black look and, jerking the pig's wing roughly, started walking
stolidly through the forest. Never had Dorothy felt so blue, or rather
so black and blue--so wet, so discouraged, so thoroughly miserable!
And when, sticking out her tongue to see if it was still pink she
discovered that it, too, was black, she began sobbing softly to herself.

"No one will know us any more," she decided dejectedly. "We're as
badly off now as Ozma and the others. Why, oh why, did we ever come
into this terrible forest?" She could feel Pigasus sniffing with
sympathy, and suddenly realizing that she was not behaving very well,
she straightened up. After all, she still was a Princess, even though
she was black. Princesses did not cry even when they were captured and
enchanted. Ozma was probably in a worse fix than this, and if Ozma was
being brave, she would be brave, too. So, with a great effort, Dorothy
stifled her sobs and began to look around her. To her surprise and
astonishment she discovered that the Black Forest was not dark and
gloomy as it had seemed before, but really quite beautiful. There were
many shades and degrees of blackness in the trees and flowers that
thickly carpeted the ground.

Black birds twittered musically in the branches overhead, and every
now and then a deer peered timidly out at her from the woodsy depths
between the tree trunks. The Guard, glancing over his shoulder and
catching her interested expression, ventured a smile.

"Why, he is not bad looking at all," thought Dorothy, with a pleased
start. "And maybe this witch may be a good witch--her name sounds
rather pretty." Quite comforted by these reflections, Dorothy whispered
a few rhymed remarks in the pig's ear. Pigasus, it must be confessed,
was as interested in what he saw as Dorothy, and when a sudden break
between the trees revealed a great black circular wall with a hundred
black flags floating from its many turrets, he gave an involuntary
grunt of admiration.

"You are about to enter the Royal Circle of Gloma, Witch of the Black
Forest," announced the Guard, raising his hand solemnly. "I trust you
will conduct yourselves in a fitting manner."

"Don't worry about OUR manners," shrilled Pigasus, tossing his head
airily. "We are accustomed to Royalty and move in exclusive circles at
home."

"And talk in circles, too," muttered the Guard impatiently. "Well,
well--do the best you can and bow three times as you approach the
throne."

"Throne?" queried Dorothy, slipping off the pig's back so she would not
have to talk in rhyme, for what she had to say to the black witch was
very serious indeed. "Is Gloma a Queen?"

"Certainly our witch is a Queen, a bewitching Queen," retorted the
Guard, taking Dorothy firmly by the hand and tightening his hold on
Pigasus. "Now, then, smile and look pleasant and perhaps she'll allow
you to be her slave."

"She wouldn't dare make me a slave," cried Dorothy, trying her best to
pull away from her captor.

"Just let her try it!" blustered Pigasus, scuffling unwillingly along
on the other side. But paying no attention to their struggles, the
Guard lifted his foot and kicked three times on a black ebony door in
the wall, and a tall Watchman dressed in a black leather suit admitted
them to the Royal Circle. It was all so different from what Dorothy
had been expecting she almost forgot her anger. Enclosed by the black
marble wall was a strange and enchanting garden. Now, Dorothy had never
seen a black garden, nor dreamed one could be so beautiful. Here sable
willows mirrored their feathery branches in long shining pools, here
black plum and cherry trees flaunted their fragile black blossoms,
and jet black fountains sent their smoking waters high into the quiet
air. Vast satiny expanses of lawn were dotted with a hundred beds of
dusky roses, tulips, velvety pansies and daffodils. Built all round the
circular wall was a low but sumptuous black castle, and seated on an
ebony throne in the center of her stately black garden was the Black
Queen herself, looking, Dorothy was thankful to discover, much more
like a Queen than a witch. Gloma's face was sweet and serious, her
hair fine and glossy as a raven's wing. She was dressed in a trailing
robe of black chiffon that billowed in lacy clouds round her feet. A
sparkling crown of jet and long jet earrings were her only ornaments.
On each side of the Black Queen crouched a sleek black leopard and
behind the ebony throne stood ten tall foresters with gleaming axes.
"Like headsmen in a medieval history book," thought Dorothy as she and
Pigasus were dragged rapidly forward. Gloma, gazing dreamily into a
black crystal set on a marble stand before the throne, seemed entirely
unaware of their presence till the harsh voice of the Black Guard
announced them.

"Hail! Black and Imperial Majesty!" called the Guard deferentially,
approaching the throne. "Two prisoners, a pig and a Princess, whom I
found wandering unlawfully in our forest, and whom I took the liberty
of blacking."

Dorothy, jerking away from the Guard, was about to explain how she and
Pigasus had lost their way, when Gloma jumped to her feet with a sharp,
agonized scream.

"Blotz, General Blotz, what have you done?" panted the Black Queen,
beating her hands wildly together. "Your stupidity has ruined us all!
You have blackened and insulted my most dangerous and mortal enemy!
Go! Leave! Begone and never darken my doors again! Oh, why--why did
you do it? Why have you brought her here? After all these years must I
too be destroyed and obliterated?" Sinking back on her throne, Gloma
covered her face with her hair and began rocking backward and forward
in agitation and sorrow.

"Why, why--I believe she's afraid of you!" puffed Pigasus, twitching
his tail with excitement and interest as General Blotz, looking quite
dazed, began to move unhappily toward the gate in the wall.

"Quick!" he grunted as the ten foresters back of the throne rushed
forward to surround them. "Do something, Dorothy, while she is still
afraid of you. Make her unblacken us. Tell her to set us free. Hurry!
Hurry, before she discovers you are only a harmless little girl."
But Dorothy, only half listening to the pig, boldly thrust aside the
foresters and ran over to the Black Queen.

"Why are you afraid of ME?" asked Dorothy, speaking rapidly but
distinctly. "I did not come here on purpose. Pigasus and I are lost and
need your help."

"Help?" shivered Gloma, shrinking as far away from Dorothy as possible.
"Why should I help you? Are you not Dorothy, the mortal girl who
destroyed the powerful Witches of the East and West?"

"But that was long ago," explained Dorothy breathlessly as two of the
Queen's henchmen seized her roughly by the arms. "And they were bad and
wicked witches. Why should I wish to destroy a good and beautiful witch
like you?"

"Do not listen to her. Do not let her touch you. She means to destroy
and ensnare you," hissed the foresters as they dragged Dorothy away
from the throne. "Down with all mortals! Away to the dungeons with
her! Wing that pig! Chop off their heads!" At these loud savage cries,
startled faces appeared at the windows of the black palace, and
struggling in the midst of the foresters Dorothy heartily wished she
had taken the pig's advice.

"Shall we take off her head _now_ or later?" puffed the fellow who had
hold of her left arm.

"Now!" roared the axman who had hold of her right.

"Stop!" commanded the Queen, rising suddenly. "You cannot harm this
girl. Do you not see the star of protection on her forehead?" At these
words the woodsmen stared fearfully down at Dorothy, and sure enough,
shining in the center of her black forehead was a pure white star.
Pigasus, who had not noticed it before himself, gave a grunt of relief
and began kicking out in every direction.

"How about the pig?" yelled a forester, leaning down to rub his shins.
"Shall we take off his head?"

"If you dare touch Pigasus," screamed Dorothy, resolved to use the
powers she was supposed to have, "I'll turn you all to bats and beetles
and horrid black ants." A breathless silence followed Dorothy's threat.
The foresters still kept their hold on the prisoner, but at as great a
distance as they could manage.

"Do as you wish, comrades," the tallest of the axmen solemnly broke the
silence, "but I'm for letting them alone. I've never been an ant yet
and don't intend to begin now. Come--away to the dungeons with them.
This is not for us to settle with axes, it is a case for witch work."

"You are right." The Queen, who had been standing motionless as a
statue, took a decisive step forward. "Take them away, but not to the
dungeons! Take them to the dark room in my imperial palace. They shall
see what happens to those who defy Gloma, Witch of the Black Forest."

"Aye! Aye! They shall see," muttered the foresters, pushing Dorothy and
Pigasus roughly along ahead of them.




CHAPTER 11

Black Magic


Dorothy and Pigasus were hustled into the Black Castle, rushed down its
shiny black corridors and thrust into a great, dark, dome-shaped room,
so quickly they had no opportunity to exchange a word.

"Well, anyway, even if it is a dark room we can still see," whispered
Dorothy, as the foresters in their haste to get away from such
dangerous prisoners fairly tumbled over each other to get through the
door.

"Yes," puffed Pigasus glumly as the key rasped in the lock, "and the
first thing I see is that there are no windows. If there was a window
we could fly off. As it is, this witch will make short work of us."

"I wonder how much magic she really knows," sighed Dorothy, seating
herself wearily on a black velvet stool.

"I wonder!" said Pigasus, flinging himself crossly on the floor beside
her. "And what's all this stuff about your being her worst enemy? Did
you really destroy two witches, and could you destroy her?" Although
Pigasus had lived in the Emerald City for several years, he was not
familiar with all of the history that had taken place before his
arrival.

"Oh, all that happened when I first came here," explained Dorothy,
clasping her knees with both hands. "You see, when the cyclone blew
me from Kansas to Oz, my house fell on the wicked witch who ruled the
Munchkins and killed her. The Munchkins, supposing I had done it on
purpose, came out and thanked me and gave me the witch's silver shoes.
Then, when I reached the Emerald City and begged the Wizard, who was
ruler of Oz at that time, to send me back to Kansas, he promised to do
so if I killed the wicked witch who ruled the Winkies."

"And did you?" asked Pigasus, rolling over and looking up at Dorothy
with real admiration.

"Well, that was sort of an accident, too," admitted the little girl
honestly. "When the Tin Woodman, the Scarecrow, and the Cowardly Lion
and I reached the witch's yellow castle, the witch captured us all and
made me work hard from morning till night. But one day," Dorothy with
an anxious eye on the door hurriedly continued, "one day when she tried
to steal my silver shoes, I got SO mad I picked up a bucket of water
I'd been using for scrubbing and flung it right over her head."

"And did that destroy her?" Pigasus demanded incredulously.

"Yes," said Dorothy, "it melted her down to nothing at all."

"But what about the star? I never noticed that before?"

"That's where the Good Witch of the North comes in," answered Dorothy
proudly. "Right after my house fell on the Wicked Witch of the West,
she appeared and when she discovered I was a mortal she kissed me on
the forehead to keep me from harm all the time I was in Oz. It only
shows now because I'm black, I suppose."

"Well, why didn't it keep you from turning black, if it's so
wonderful?" Pigasus switched his curly tail resentfully.

"I don't know," Dorothy looked thoughtfully around Gloma's strange
laboratory, "maybe the spell has worn off, maybe there's no harm in
being black."

"Humph! There may not be any harm in it, but it's pretty sad and
mournful, if you ask me," grunted Pigasus, glaring savagely at his
satiny black sides. "I prefer myself pink and you pink and white the
way you were. Tea and turnips, first thing I know you'll be powdering
your nose with ashes and soot! But, after all--" Pigasus swung himself
energetically to his feet, "that is the least of our troubles. What
do you suppose this witch will do to us now? And what can we do to
her? Sa--hay!" Spreading his wings, Pigasus spun round in a triumphant
circle. "All we have to do is to find some water. Why, it's simple as
soup. Quick, Dorothy, look and see whether there is any water around
here, then as soon as Gloma pops her nose in the door we'll put her out
as neatly as you did that other witch."

"But those other witches were bad and Gloma seems really good and
beautiful," objected Dorothy, looking around without much enthusiasm.

"Beautiful or not, she's a dark and dangerous lady," insisted the pig,
beginning his search in a methodical way, "and it's her beauty or ours,
remember, this Black Queen is quite determined to destroy us, if we
don't destroy her first."

"Yes, I suppose so," agreed Dorothy. Slowly following Pigasus, she
pulled aside black velvet curtains, peered behind cupboards and screens
and looked under sofas and chairs. There were many ebony cabinets
standing against the wall, but each one was securely locked and except
for a great black crystal ball on a table in the center of the room,
there seemed to be no magic apparatus at all. A dark lantern swinging
from the domed ceiling cast its curious luminous black rays into every
corner of the witch's laboratory. After circling the room three times,
Pigasus and Dorothy were forced to admit there was no water of any kind
or even a pail available.

"We'll have to think of something else," grumbled the pig, as Dorothy
again sat down on her stool.

"Are you thinking?" he demanded sharply, as the little girl stared
absently at the tips of her boots.

"No," confessed Dorothy frankly, "I was just wondering why Gloma calls
this a dark room. She must know since General Blotz ducked us under the
Black River we can see in here as well as in the forest."

"I wouldn't be too sure of that," muttered the pig, coming over and
crowding as close to Dorothy as he could. It almost seemed as if
someone had heard him, for scarcely were the words out of his mouth
before the dark lantern over their heads sputtered ominously and went
out, leaving them in a perfectly pitch black total darkness.

"I--I--I felt something like this would happen," faltered Pigasus,
throwing his left wing protectingly around Dorothy. "Listen! Someone is
coming."

A light sure footstep sounded in the passage--came closer, then a
sudden puff of air told them that someone had opened the door.

"Remember, Piggins dear, no matter what happens, we must be brave,"
whispered Dorothy, trembling a little in spite of herself.

"It's hard to be brave in the dark, but I'll do my best. Here, lean
on me." And though the happenings of the next ten minutes were enough
to try the courage of a dozen lions, Pigasus kept his word and never
uttered a sound. As the two prisoners clung desperately together the
crystal on the center table received a sudden shattering blow.

Up spurted a perfect fountain of fire coming down over Dorothy and
Pigasus in a shower of red hot sparks. But the sparks fell harmlessly
as raindrops on the winged pig and the little girl, and after a great
hiss and sputter went out, leaving the laboratory in darkness again.
Scarcely had they recovered from this shock before a second blow was
struck, and this time a hundred huge, hideous, black snakes came
writhing out of the crystal, their green glittering eyes lighting up
the room with a terrifying sulphurous light. The great twisting mass
grew more and more menacing, sending out its long curving bodies like
arms to encircle them. This, thought Dorothy, burying her head in
Pigasus' wing, was black magic at its worst. Now she could feel the
clammy coils all around her and waited breathlessly to be crushed
and broken. But the cold, heavy bodies seemed powerless and without
weight and presently they, too, slipped away and vanished. A shower of
silver arrows followed the snakes and a cloud of choking green smoke,
the arrows. But each blow on the crystal only seemed to prove further
the potency of the kiss set on Dorothy's forehead so long ago by the
Good Witch of the North. And because she clung so tightly to Pigasus,
he, too, came unharmed through the hair-raising ordeal. As they both,
almost afraid to breathe, waited for the next blow on the dark crystal,
a long, tremulous sigh came mournfully through the darkness.

"It is no use," murmured a discouraged voice, "my black magic is of no
avail. Come, then, destroy me if you must, but do it quickly, and I
pray you will spare my people who have never harmed or hurt a living
soul in Oz."

With a little thrill, Dorothy recognized the voice of the Black Queen,
and as the dark lantern again shed its twinkling rays over the circular
apartment, Gloma rose and came calmly and rapidly toward them. Dorothy
and Pigasus, who had just had their own bravery so severely tested,
could not but admire the spirit and bravery of the Witch of the Black
Forest. Even though she was sure she faced certain destruction, she
walked proudly erect, her head flung back, her great mass of dusky hair
billowing behind her.

"Stop!" cried Dorothy, on whom the Queen's dark beauty had made a
deep and lasting impression. "Why should we wish to destroy you? We
came through the Yellow Wood and from there into the Black Forest,
but we only wished to go through as quickly as possible. We are in
trouble ourselves. Did you know that Ozma of Oz, the Wizard of Oz, the
four rulers of Oz, and many others have vanished? There is a false
Emperor on the throne in the Emerald City and under the magic of his
enchantment all the people have forgotten Ozma ever was their Queen.
Pigasus and I, escaping this enchantment, are trying to find Ozma and
someone to help us restore her to power." Dorothy spoke with such
earnestness and feeling, Gloma could not help believing her.

"Then--then you did not come here to destroy me at all?" she exclaimed
with an unhappy and embarrassed glance at her two prisoners. "Forgive
me for using my magic powers, I only wanted to save myself and my
foresters from obliteration."

"Oh, that's all right." Dorothy dismissed with a careless shrug the
danger and discomfort of the last hour. "You thought we were going to
destroy you, so, of course, you tried to destroy us first. That was
fair enough and I don't blame you, but now that we understand each
other better, perhaps you will help us? Do you, yourself, remember
Ozma, and is your magic powerful enough to tell us where she is?"

Seating herself in a chair near Dorothy's footstool, Gloma stared
thoughtfully at the velvet carpet.

"I know or remember nothing of the present history of Oz," she told
them after a short silence. "At the time the Wizard of Oz ruled Oz I
ruled by royal right and inheritance the entire southern part of the
Winkie Empire. Although the Wicked Witch of the East claimed dominion
over the whole country, she only succeeded in bringing the central
and northern parts under her control. We in the South were free, but
when word came that a mortal girl had destroyed both the Witch of the
East and the Witch of the West, I, being a witch, naturally supposed I
would be the next one to suffer destruction. So, calling together the
strongest and most faithful of my subjects, I begged them to retire
with me to a safe and hidden spot where we could live in safety and
tranquillity far from the wars, dangers, and changing fortunes of the
times. Many of my Southern Winkies cast their lot with the new order,
marching off to the North, but many came with me, and retiring to this
hidden forest, we cut ourselves off from all intercourse with the
other Kingdoms of Oz, living the free and happy life of foresters and
enjoying all the beauty and benefits of outdoor sport and activity. Of
the rulers in Oz since the Wizard, I know nothing whatever."

"And were you always black?" inquired Pigasus, peering inquisitively up
into Gloma's face, and wondering whether the two small black wings on
each side of her forehead were as useful as his own.

"No," admitted the Queen, smiling graciously down at her plump
questioner. "That was part of our disappearing plan, in a dark forest
we were so much less likely to be found or discovered, so with my
knowledge of the black arts I turned myself and my subjects as black as
you now see us."

"What a shame! What a pity!" Dorothy jumped up and perched cozily
on the arm of the Black Queen's chair. "If you had just come to the
Emerald City, we could have been friends all this while."

"Why not begin now?" smiled the Queen, putting her arm affectionately
round Dorothy's waist. "And you must not be sorry for us, for here we
have been perfectly happy and content and I have grown so fond of my
black forest and castle I would not change their lovely sable for all
the other colors in the rainbow. But tell me quickly again all that has
happened in Oz and perhaps I can make amends for the shabby treatment
you have received at our hands."

Contritely the Black Queen leaned down to pat Pigasus, and as Dorothy
sketched in most of the important happenings in Oz since the reign
of the Wizard, the little pig pressed closely against her side. With
many interested nods and exclamations Gloma listened, and when Dorothy
described the great festival that had been planned to celebrate the
discovery of Oz by mortals, how Ozma and all her most important
visitors and advisers had vanished at the banquet, and a false Emperor
taken possession of the palace, the Queen rose and walked solemnly over
to the black crystal. But after a long look into its inky depths, Gloma
turned sadly away.

"My black magic cannot help you," she told them regretfully. "The
rulers of Oz and your other friends have been enchanted by green
magic, and only by green magic can they be released and restored to
power. But I can assist you in other ways," added the Queen, noting
the disappointed expressions on the faces of her two new friends. "One
tap of my scepter will transport you to any country and here--" from a
drawer in the ebony table the Queen drew a small black round box--"in
this container you will find a most powerful powder of darkness. One
pinch of this powder tossed into the air will cause a black cloud a
mile square to envelop and totally darken a city or country. While no
one in this darkened area will be able to see you, it will be perfectly
possible for you to see them as clearly as in the usual daylight. In
case of danger it affords a safe way of escape from the enemy. To
dispel the cloud you merely close the box."

"That ought to be just the thing to use if we ever get back to the
Emerald City," observed Pigasus, scratching his left ear with his right
hind paw. "Why, we could swoop down on this Emperor, bind him fast and
tweak him by the nose before he even knew what was happening."

"Why, so we could!" beamed Dorothy, brightening up at once. "And now,
though of course black is a perfectly beautiful color, could you change
us back to the colors we were when we came?" Dorothy spoke timidly, for
she did not want to hurt Gloma's feelings.

"As soon as you leave the forest you will resume your natural
coloring," the witch assured them with a little smile. "And where, may
I ask, were you planning to go first?"

"Well," said Dorothy slowly, "I thought perhaps the countries outside
of Oz might not be under this forgetting spell and that we might find
in one of them a King who would lend us his army and help us to chase
Skamperoo out of the Emerald City. Could you transport us as far as Ev,
your Majesty?"

"As easily as I could invite you to dinner," Gloma assured them with
an energetic little nod, "and I hope you will not only have dinner but
rest yourselves before you start again on your dangerous journey."

"Pigasus--Pigasus, did you hear that? She can transport us all the way
to Ev! Didn't I tell you we might find a good witch in this forest? Now
everything will be all right!"

    "So glad we met and got acquainted,
    You're not so black as you are painted!"

chuckled Pigasus, breaking into rhyme from sheer good humor and
relief. "And did I hear your Majesty invite us to dinner?"

"You certainly did," said Gloma, and dropping them a little bow, she
swept gaily through the door.

"D'ye suppose it will be a black dinner?" whispered Pigasus, trotting
briskly along beside Dorothy. "I've heard of light repasts, but never
of dark ones. But I don't care. I'm hungry enough to eat tar pudding
with cinder sauce."

"Sh--hh!" warned Dorothy with a little laugh. "She'll hear you."




CHAPTER 12

Farewell to the Black Forest


Although the dinner in the Black Castle was as dark a repast as
Pigasus had predicted, never had he or Dorothy dined more royally nor
partaken of more delicate fare. The black bean soup was followed by
a black fish course, then came the dark meat of some superbly cooked
fowl, "probably cinder-roosters," as Pigasus remarked in one of his
humorous asides. The licorice was the most delicious of the vegetables,
though the black asparagus and potatoes were appetizing, too. Black
bread was served with the black grape salad and plum cake with black
frosting with the black ices and blackberryade. The members of Gloma's
household, now that their fear of Dorothy had been explained away,
proved so interesting and merry, the time simply flew. The black lace
frocks of the women and children and the soft leather suits of the
black foresters were simple but elegant, and the Black Queen herself,
so lovely just to look at her gave one a curious thrill. General Blotz,
recalled from banishment by Blackjack, the Queen's pet Jackdaw, proved
a singer of no mean ability, and regaled the company with many famous
black ballads and hunting songs. Pigasus, too, contributed to the
general fun and gaiety with some of his best songs and verses and ate
so many slices of the black plum cake, Dorothy began to feel positively
uneasy.

Interesting and delightful as it all was, the little girl could not
help thinking of Ozma and her other unfortunate and captive friends,
and as the black banjo clock in the corner of the hall struck a
musical ten, she lightly touched the arm of Gloma. The Black Queen had
graciously placed Dorothy beside her.

"I think we had better go now," whispered Dorothy earnestly. "If
Pigasus eats any more he'll fall asleep and we'll have to wait till
morning." Gloma smiled and nodded understandingly, then pressing
Dorothy's hand for "Goodbye," stole quietly off to her workshop.
Dorothy tried to signal Pigasus across the gleaming black table, but
before she could catch his eye he had vanished, and she herself was
whirling dizzily through space.

"Maybe it would have been better to have spent the night in the
castle," mused Dorothy, spreading her arms like wings as she sailed
through the air. "I don't suppose we'll be able to see in the dark now
that we are out of the Black Forest, and goodness knows where we'll
come down." There was no moon, and peer about as she would, Dorothy
could not even catch a glimpse of the flying pig. "Of course," Dorothy
went on conversationally to herself, "we could have flown all this
distance on Piggin's back, but this is quicker and less trouble, but
oh, dear, I do hope he's all right." Her worry about the pink pig
ended rather abruptly, for at that very moment she began to somersault
over and over in a headlong drop to the ground. A painful grunt as she
landed assured her of the pig's presence.

"What you trying to do? Puncture me?" puffed Pigasus, as Dorothy with
an embarrassed little gasp of apology rolled off his back. "Such
rudeness!" grunted her companion, scrambling to his feet with an angry
snort. "Flinging us out of her castle as if we'd been garbage. Yes,
garbage," he repeated, winking rapidly.

"It was my fault," cried Dorothy, moving over to smooth out his ruffled
wing feathers. "I asked her to transport us to Ev, and OH, PIGGINS!" By
the light of a crooked lamp set in a crevice of the rocky path on which
they found themselves Dorothy regarded him rapturously. "You're pink
again!"

"Am I? Well, that's something." Waddling closer to the lamp, Pigasus
examined himself with careful attention. "You're pink, too," he said
a little more pleasantly, "but these magic transportations are a bit
sudden, if you ask me, and I'm not at all sure I like this spot. Where
are we, anyway?"

"Oh, it's all right and now we don't have to travel at all. We're
here," announced Dorothy, who had hurried on a few steps ahead.

"And where is here?" grumbled Pigasus, following pompously, more from
too much plum cake than from a desire to be disagreeable.

"Why, at Kalico's Mountain!" exclaimed Dorothy, pointing excitedly to
a small door in the rocky surface before them. "Now we don't have to
decide between the Gnome King and the King of Ev. Since we are here,
we'll try Kalico first."

"Trying him is all very well, but I hope he does not try any magic on
us," yawned Pigasus, squinting sleepily up at the brass sign hung on
the stout wooden door. "What does it say there?" A green lantern hung
over the door and by its flickering light Dorothy read slowly:

    "Back door of the Gnome King's Underground Castle. No dogs, babies
    or chickens allowed. No gold fish wanted. No peddlers or snailsmen
    need apply. Keep out and stay out. This means YOU."

"Oh, that's all right," laughed Dorothy as Pigasus looked rather
alarmed at the sternly worded notice. "We're not babies or chickens or
gold fish, and Kalico's a friend of mine. Come on!" Lifting the knocker
and smiling confidently, Dorothy knocked three times on the Gnome
King's back door.




CHAPTER 13

In Kalico's Castle


"What is it, Shoofenwaller?" Kalico, the thin and gray little King of
the Gnomes, peered impatiently down from the great carved gem-studded
rock that served him for a throne. "Shoo--go away--you know this is my
hour for retiring! Go away, I tell you! And if you never come back it
will still be too soon."

"Yes, but your MAJESTY!" While obediently backing toward the door, the
King's Royal Chamberlain extended his arms imploringly. "Something has
come up, the Long Eared Hearer reports footsteps on the South Mountain.
Two visitors are about to enter the back door of our castle."

"Visitors!" exclaimed Kalico, getting up with an impatient flounce. "At
this hour! Well, tell them to go away and come back tomorrow. Here,
wait a moment." As Shoofenwaller, shrugging his narrow shoulders,
turned to carry out his orders, Kalico changed his mind. "Just hand me
my expectacles," commanded the King crossly, "I may as well have a look
at the prowling pests."

With another shrug, Shoofenwaller stepped to a small cabinet, and
taking a pair of smoked glasses from the top drawer, handed them up to
the King. Now Kalico's expectacles were very useful, enabling him to
see who was coming before they arrived, and clapping them hurriedly
on his thin nose, he stared intently off into space. At what he saw,
the King's expression changed from irritation to vague uneasiness.
"Botheration!" he muttered morosely. "It's one of those mortals from
the Emerald City. Why can't those girls stay home--always poking their
noses into other people's affairs and trying to save somebody from
something."

"Which one is it?" asked Shoofenwaller, blinking.

"It's Dorothy," sighed Kalico, taking off his expectacles and putting
them absently into his pocket, "and there's a queer kind of winged pig
with her. A pig with wings, mind you. Rooks and rockets! Wonder what
they want?"

"Why not find out?" suggested Shoofenwaller reasonably.

"No! No, not tonight," Kalico waved his hands determinedly. "Just
conduct them to the red guest cave, Shoofenwaller, and bring them to me
in the morning." With a stiff bow the Royal Chamberlain backed out the
door and pattered away to admit the visitors.

"And about time, too," thought Dorothy as the rock door opened
cautiously and the little crooked Gnome thrust out his head.

"In the name of King Kalico the First, I hereby welcome you to Gnome
Man's Land," began Shoofenwaller pompously.

"Oh, that's all right," yawned Pigasus wearily, "what we want is a
place to sleep, and remember--no trickery!" he added sharply as the
Gnome stood aside so that they could enter the narrow rock passageway.

"I suppose your Highness comes on a matter of state?" remarked
Shoofenwaller, turning from Pigasus with an involuntary grimace. Pigs
reminded him of ham--ham reminded him of eggs, and eggs were immediate
death and destruction to gnomes.

"Well, yes," admitted Dorothy, adjusting her step to the short, crooked
legs of the King's little Counselor. "What I really need is an army!"

"An army?" groaned Shoofenwaller, realizing what bad news this would be
for his master. "Our army?"

"Oh, let's talk about all that in the morning," wheezed Pigasus as
Dorothy briskly nodded her head in answer to Shoofenwaller's question.
The pink pig was taking sleepy sidelong squints at the elegantly
excavated and gem-encrusted corridors of the Gnome King's underground
dwelling.

"Just what his Majesty suggested," muttered the Chamberlain, sweeping
open a red iron door with a ruby knob. "I trust you will be comfortable
here and rest well. If your Highness wishes a cup of Kalicocoa, or your
friend a mud pie or pudding, just ring the bell. Goodnight, Princess!
Goodnight--er--er PIG!"

"Sa-hay--I resent that!" Pigasus cocked his ears belligerently as the
King's crooked little messenger bowed himself out the door. "Did you
notice the way he said 'pig,' Dorothy?"

"Yes," said Dorothy with a little yawn, "I did, but then all gnomes are
sassy and you'll have to get used to them. If Kalico helps us, that's
all we care about."

Pigasus nodded rather grimly. "I suppose this is what you call getting
down to bed rock," he murmured, looking around the red rock apartment
with his amused blue stare. "Hope the beds aren't rock, too." Punching
a red sofa experimentally and finding it surprisingly soft, the pink
pig jumped up and settled himself cozily among the cushions. Pigasus
had lived in castles and palaces all his life and was so accustomed
to comfort and luxury that without bothering to look around Kalico's
richly appointed guest cavern he closed his eyes and fell asleep.
Dorothy, tiptoeing through a curtain into an adjoining red rock cavern
that served as a bedroom, undressed quickly and putting out the ruby
lamps, slid thankfully between the red silk sheets and was soon as
soundly asleep as Pigasus.

They were just having breakfast, served by two small gnomen in their
red sitting-cave, when Shoofenwaller came hurrying in to announce that
Kalico was ready and waiting to see them. Earlier the Gnome King and
his Chamberlain had discussed the possible purposes of Dorothy's visit
and Kalico had been extremely annoyed to learn that she wanted to
borrow his army.

"And you will lend it to her, all our hundred thousand trained Gnomen
Yoemen?" questioned Shoofenwaller anxiously.

"What else can I do?" Kalico snapped his little gray eyes unhappily.
"Remember it was Dorothy who stole the former Gnome King's magic belt
and really was the means of my becoming King."

"That's so," muttered Shoofenwaller, pulling his ear reflectively.
"But why not use a little strategy in this conference, King? Why not
pretend to help her and at the same time safeguard your own interests?
Lending our army is a dangerous experiment. Suppose an enemy threatened
us while our fighting forces were in the Emerald City? Anything could
happen. Put her off--make excuses," urged Shoofenwaller craftily. This
suggestion fell in exactly with the Gnome King's wishes, and curious to
know what really had brought Dorothy to his castle, he sent his little
Chamberlain hurrying off to bring her to the throne room.

"And now for a little Kalicoaxing," sniffed Pigasus, waddling
unconcernedly along beside Dorothy under magnificent arches, over
artificial terraces and rock gardens, gazing down long vistas of yet
unmined shafts where hundreds of gnomes worked busily with picks and
shovels to further enrich the already enormously rich and powerful
little Metal Monarch. Kalico, as they entered the beautifully furnished
and lavishly carved cave that he used for a throne room, came hurrying
to meet them.

"So charming of you to come all this way just to see me," murmured
the Gnome King, taking both of Dorothy's hands in his own and bowing
graciously as she introduced Pigasus. "Always delighted to entertain a
Princess from the Court of her Royal Highness, Ozma of Oz!"

"Oh, Kalico--then you DO remember her! Oh, please, dear Kalico, will
you help us to find her?"

"Find her? Why, what under the earth do you mean? Is Ozma lost?"
Kalico's long face at Dorothy's excited greeting grew visibly longer,
and after the little girl had explained the disappearance of Ozma and
the others, the enchantment of all the people in Oz, and the coming
of Skamperoo to the Emerald City, Kalico climbed wearily back on his
throne and sat down.

"This--this is shocking!" faltered Kalico, mopping his forehead with a
long gray cobweb, "and just what do you and this--this--pig intend to
do about it?"

"What do YOU intend to do about it?" Rather tired of being called a
pig, Pigasus planted all four feet and stared defiantly up at the
perturbed Metal Monarch.

"Well--er--that is--er--I don't see that it is MY affair at all!"
mumbled Kalico with a rueful nod of his head. "Anyone powerful enough
to conquer Ozma and Oz would pay small attention to opinions of mine."

"But we don't want your opinions," stated Pigasus bluntly. "What we
want is your army and any magic you can conveniently spare!"

"Please, Kalico, do help us," begged Dorothy, running up the carved
rock steps of the throne and seating herself coaxingly on the arm.
"With all your thousands of gnomes and many magic powers, we can
certainly drive Skamperoo out of the Emerald City."

"Well, of course," sighed Kalico, flattered by Dorothy's reference to
his magic powers, "I'll do what I can, but if what you say is true,
it will take more than one army to reconquer Oz." As he said this,
Kalico looked across at Shoofenwaller, and the little Chamberlain,
well pleased with his master's strategy, gave him an encouraging
wink. "I tell you what I'll do," Kalico crossed his legs and regarded
Dorothy through half-closed eyes. "If you find another King willing
to send _his_ army into Oz, I will also send mine. Remember, even
Ozma's closest friends and retainers have forgotten her and the entire
population, now fully convinced Skamperoo is their rightful ruler, will
rise to oppose us."

"Yes, yes, but have you no magic that will dispel this wicked
enchantment or help us to locate our friends and sovereigns?" demanded
Pigasus, not wholly satisfied with the Gnome King's offer.

"Gnome magic may be of no use in this case; nevertheless, I will
send for my wizard and see what can be done." Remembering their last
experience with magic, Dorothy stepped down from Kalico's throne and
seated herself quietly on the pink pig's back, and Pigasus, grunting
with relief, squinted suspiciously at the small, ugly Wizard of the
Underworld, who presently came shuffling into the royal presence
chamber. As quickly as possible Kalico explained to the Wizard all the
dire happenings in Oz.

"Do you think our magic spyglass could locate Ozma and her missing
friends and associates or tell us whether they have been utterly and
completely destroyed?" demanded the Gnome King gravely.

Potaroo, the King's magician, stood pulling his straggly whiskers for
several moments after Kalico had finished speaking, then he stamped
four times on the flagged floor with his right foot. Almost instantly
four gnome wise men in peaked hats came into the throne room wheeling
a huge telescope before them. Dorothy and Pigasus, prickling with
suspense and terror, watched the Wizard screw his eye to the end of
the twisting spyglass. After several snorts and surprised exclamations,
Potaroo straightened up.

"The missing Ozians and the Wizard of Ev are hidden away in Thunder
Mountain," he stated in a hoarse whisper. An electric little silence
followed Potaroo's disclosure, and as no one uttered a sound, the
wizard continued, "As the spyglass is now pointing north, I believe you
will find Thunder Mountain in that direction, but I must warn you that
it will be a long and exceedingly dangerous journey."

    "Danger? Well what do we care for that
    Quick somebody fetch me my coat--my hat--"

"This hardly seems a time for jokes and verses," murmured Kalico,
looking at Dorothy in mild disapproval.

    "She has to make verses and rhymes when she rides me
    I'm a poetry pig and a lucky star guides me!"

grunted Pigasus, too overcome by the wizard's awful news to realize he
was speaking in verse himself.

"Oh, what difference does it make?" cried Dorothy, jumping quickly off
his back, "we must go to Thunder Mountain at once. Pigasus can fly
there."

"Here, here, not in such a hurry," exclaimed Kalico, secretly
delighted at the prospect of being so easily rid of his troubles.
"We must pack you a lunch basket, and tell me, Potaroo, have you any
magic that will make the journey less dangerous for these brave young
adventurers?"

"M--agic?" stuttered Potaroo, his eyes growing glassy at the mere
thought of parting with any of his magic treasures. "Well--er--I could
lend them a box of my famous triple action stumbling blocks. They will
overthrow any enemy, no matter how numerous."

"Splendid!" beamed Kalico, rubbing his hands briskly together, "and
don't forget, in the course of your journey north, if you find a King
willing to lend his army, my army also will be ready and at your
service."

"Oh, Kalico, how _kind_ you are!" Running up the steps of the throne
again, Dorothy gave the Gnome King an impulsive hug.

"Come on, COME on!" squealed Pigasus, who had seen the various winks
between Kalico and Shoofenwaller and was convinced that the little
Gnome King was doing as little as he possibly could. "Give us our lunch
and our stumbling blocks and we'll be off, and I must say they'll be
an enormous help when we reach Thunder Mountain." Spreading his wings,
Pigasus began to fly in angry circles round the Gnome King's head.

"Humph, pork's going up!" sniffed Shoofenwaller as he hurried away to
see about packing the lunch basket.

"He ought to be dried, smoked and salted," muttered Potaroo, going
sulkily off to fetch the blocks. Dorothy, in earnest consultation
with Kalico, heard neither of these remarks, and when a few moments
later the two returned with two boxes and Dorothy's hat and coat, she
thanked them politely, called Pigasus down from a rocky ledge where he
had flown and climbed happily on his back. Then Pigasus, not giving her
time for any lengthy farewells, zipped through the tunneled caverns
and corridors of the Gnome King's Underground Dominions and burst
thankfully out the back door of South Mountain.

"Now, let's see, which way is north?" mused Pigasus, twirling his curly
tail around like a propeller. "All we have to do is to fly north to
Thunder Mountain, unlock its thunder bolts, restore the rulers of Oz,
toss tumbling blocks at all enemies, raise a grand army and then, THEN
King Kalico will help us. Isn't it just _too_ magniferous!"

    "Why Piggins, how mean of you, surely you know
    The Gnome King's our friend, don't you like Kalico?"

"No!" said Pigasus fiercely, hurling himself into the air.

"Well, anyway, we're better off than we were before," thought Dorothy
after several rhymed attempts to draw Pigasus into a conversation. "At
least we now know where Ozma is and have two kinds of magic and the
promise of an army. Really we're getting on quite fast." But perhaps
had she seen the King and his Chamberlain nodding their heads like two
little China mandarins as she and Pigasus left the throne room, she
would not have felt so cheerful.

"That's the last we'll ever see of her," chuckled Shoofenwaller,
dropping a dried lizard instead of a lump of sugar into his tea.
(Gnomes always flavor their tea with lizards.) "No one yet has ever
come safely back from Thunder Mountain. But what about this new Emperor
of Oz?"

"Oh, that will be all right!" Kalico waved one hand airily. "I would
much rather have a man on the throne of Oz. Ozma is always involving me
in wars or demanding the rights of smaller Kingdoms, so long may she
stay in Thunder Mountain and long Skamperoo rule in Oz!"

"Long live the Emperor!" echoed Shoofenwaller, and clicking their
teacups gaily together, the two bad little Gnomes drained to the last
drop their black and bitter tea. And we should not be too hard on
Kalico, I suppose, for like all the dwellers under the earth, his heart
is gray and flinty as the rock that forms his cavern, the blood in his
veins cold and sluggish as the leaden waters of the underground rivers
that wind sullenly through his dark domain.




CHAPTER 14

The Emperor of Oz


The same morning Dorothy wakened in the rustic summer house of the
Winkie farmer, Skamperoo opened his eyes upon the unaccustomed
grandeur of Ozma's Royal Palace. The banquet had lasted till long
after three o'clock, then still chuckling and yawning, he had waved
goodnight to his hilarious and amiable subjects and led Chalk off to
bed. Twenty footmen with twenty lighted tapers preceded him to Ozma's
own apartment, but dismissing this as too plain and simple, he had
taken the immense green guest suite across the hall. Chalk would have
much preferred a stall in the Royal Stable with the other four-footed
members of the castle party, but Skamperoo would not hear of such a
separation. He wanted his white wishing horse close at hand, not only
because through him and the magic emeralds he could satisfy every
wish, but because for the first time in his long, lazy, selfish life
he had found someone he liked better than himself. In Skamperoo's
eyes Chalk was absolutely perfect, and as his own wish had brought
the golden-maned charger into being, he felt proud and important as a
parent with his first child.

After a few regretful sniffs out of the window, a few short turns up
and down their immense and elegant sleeping apartment, Chalk leaped
lightly on one of the large green beds and settled himself gracefully
for the night. Covering Chalk tenderly with a green satin quilt,
Skamperoo hastily disrobed, and clutching his precious necklaces,
climbed wearily into the other bed. There, without even stopping to
wish himself goodnight, he fell into a deep and tranquil slumber.
Indeed both, in spite of the strangeness of their surroundings, slept
soundly till morning.

About eight o'clock, Chalk, lifting his head from the embroidered
pillow, looked indulgently across at the new Emperor of Oz. Sitting
up in bed, Skamperoo was busily counting the gems in his three magic
chains.

"Ho, throw those silly beads away!" advised the white horse, jumping
out of bed with a gay toss of his golden mane. "You have nothing else
to wish for, Kingaling, nothing more at all! M--mmm, this green carpet
looks good enough to eat, but I've a fancy to nibble the clover in Your
Majesty's garden while it is still fresh with dew."

"Say it again," begged Skamperoo, closing his eyes and clasping himself
blissfully around the middle.

"Your Majesty's garden! Your Majesty's Palace, Your Majesty's Kingdom
of Oz!" whinnied the white horse, rising on his hind legs and
pirouetting round with mischievous little prances. "But come, Emp! What
are your wishes for today? I think we will have to use the necklaces
after all. You must certainly have some new clothes. It would never
do to appear this morning in the suit you wore last night. You had
better have some sleeping garments, too. I've a notion that Emperors
do not sleep in their raw hides like horses." Skamperoo, giggling
self-consciously, dragged the satin sheets up to his chin, for to tell
the truth, he had arrived in the Emerald City with only one suit to his
back, and an extremely shabby one at that.

"Maybe I'd better change my face, too," he murmured, "to go with all
this, you know." Dreamily Skamperoo waved his hands about, and then,
leaning forward, slipped the chains over Chalk's ear.

"What's the matter with the face you have?" demanded Chalk, gazing
fondly at the red, rotund countenance of his Master. "I like you just
as you are, and if you change I wouldn't even know you, but I'll
tell you what you _can_ wish after you've ordered yourself some new
clothes--wish yourself a seasoned rider and then we can go far and
wide, Kingaling, far and wide at a furious gallop and none shall say us
nay--hey, hey!"

"And none shall say us nay," trilled Skamperoo, rolling out of bed,
covers and all. To wish himself fifty jewel-encrusted robes with boots,
crowns, and all the undergarments to go with them, fifty splendid
sleeping robes, and fifty suits of riding clothes took but a moment. He
and Chalk could hear them landing with little thuds on the hangers in
the many closets as Skamperoo finished speaking. Then, being naturally
lazy, the new Emperor wished that he had already had his bath and
was dressed in his green riding clothes. So, immediately he was, and
winking at his clever assistant adviser, he next wished himself the
best rider in Oz. Then, taking back his necklaces, he buttoned them
carefully in a little pocket over his heart and went over to the mirror
to have a look at himself.

"How about this governing stuff?" puffed the self-made Emperor, turning
this way and that to get a good view of his new clothes.

"Oh, I shouldn't bother about governing," answered Chalk carelessly.
"A well-governed country like this should be able to run itself for
a few weeks. By that time we'll be ready for more serious matters,
but right now I'm all for enjoying myself. A splendid idea, that, of
putting all the rulers and the Wizard and his magic out of the way. The
rest of your court and subjects are exceedingly sensible and jolly, and
if we are pleasant and sensible too, everything will be 'What ho and
so cozy!' So let's go below and start our first day of emperoaring!"
Impatiently Chalk pranced away toward the door.

"You're sure I look all right?" asked Skamperoo with another anxious
squint at his reflection. "Seems to me I'm a bit too fat."

"Oh, don't worry about that," said Chalk, rolling his eyes wickedly.
"Come along, come along, and I'll soon shake some of that fat off you.
Up with you, Kingaling, and let's to our oats!" To his delight and
pleasure, Skamperoo had not the slightest trouble mounting, and once in
the saddle he felt perfectly at home, even when Chalk bounded through
the door, took the long circular steps between a canter and a gallop,
and ran madly three times round the Royal gardens.

On fine days Ozma always had breakfast in her private garden, and it
being an especially fine day, the palace servants without thought or
question had placed the royal table under the trees. It was still
fairly early and none of the guests or members of the household were
down, but this did not spoil Skamperoo's excellent appetite at all.
Ordering Chalk a breakfast of oats, bran and quartered apples, he
seated himself gaily at the head of the table. The green riding hat,
set well over one ear, became him vastly well and Chalk, regarding him
proudly from the foot of the table, thought him every inch an Emperor,
even if round the waist there were a good many too many inches.

"I wish Pinny Penny could see you now," sighed the horse, sinking
contentedly back on his haunches, "and how I should have enjoyed seeing
Matiah's face when he finally discovered you and the necklaces were
gone. By the way, perhaps we should do something about Matiah?"

"Pinny Penny will attend to him," said Skamperoo, popping a huge cherry
into his mouth and nodding his head reassuringly. "I'll wager Pinny
Penny sent the fellow packing the moment he found himself King. Wonder
how Pinny is making out, anyway?"

"But suppose Matiah should follow us here?" went on Chalk. Having been
in existence only two days, he knew little of Oz or geozophy.

"He can't come here," Skamperoo told him triumphantly. "There's a
deadly desert between Skampavia and Oz that no one in my father's
lifetime or in mine has ever crossed, that is with the exception of
ourselves, and we were wished across, which doesn't count." Then as
four footmen with heaping trays appeared, he winked at Chalk and the
white horse lapsed into a thoughtful silence.

And Skamperoo had been perfectly correct in his conjectures about Pinny
Penny. When, with a resounding clunk, the King's gold crown had fallen
upon the astonished Prime Minister, his head had gone entirely through
so he was forced to wear it much as a dog wears a collar. But even so,
he was not slow to realize the significance of this odd happening or
the power it brought with it. Gripping the scepter which had forced
itself into his hand, he rushed into the throne room to find out what
strange whim of his Master had made him acting King of the Realm. A
glance around the throne room was enough to show him that Skamperoo
was not there, and when he saw Matiah sitting so unconcernedly in the
book alcove, a sudden rage and conviction seized him. Whatever had
happened, Matiah was to blame.

"Leave this palace at once!" shouted Pinny Penny, stamping first
one foot and then the other. "At once, do you hear, or I'll call
out the guard!" Matiah, still deep in the History of Oz, looked up
in astonishment, and when he saw the little Prime Minister wearing
Skamperoo's crown round his neck and brandishing his scepter, he gave a
perfect bellow of anger and dismay.

"Where's the King?" he roared, looking wildly around the throne room,
"and why are you wearing his crown? Where's Skamperoo--where're the
necklaces?"

"Ask yourself!" raged Pinny Penny, shaking the scepter threateningly.
"Everything was quiet and peaceful till you and your necklaces arrived
at this palace; there's some magic trickery about them and about you.
Don't think I was fooled by that horse story, a horse does not appear
out of the air. Well, now the King's gone--the horse is gone and unless
you are gone in ten seconds I'll have you thrown out of the window.
Ten seconds--do you hear? This crown and scepter came to me through no
wish or choice of my own, but since they did come to me I AM THE KING!
And I intend to rule this country. My first official act will be to rid
myself of your filthy presence. Now, then, start walking, merchant, and
don't stop till you reach the border. Twenty guards will follow to see
you safely out of the country."

"You wait till Skamperoo hears about this!" blustered Matiah, backing
away in alarm from the determined little Prime Minister. "I'm more
important to him than anyone else."

"Then why aren't you with him?" inquired Pinny Penny shrewdly. "No,
wherever he's gone he has gone without you. I am the King and I do not
need you, so be off!" Clapping his hands, Pinny gave a sharp command
to the guards, who came hurrying in answer to his summons. Retiring
rapidly to escape the tips of their sharp spikes, Matiah sullenly began
his long march. It was nightfall by the time the little company reached
the edge of Skampavia. Here, in a wilderness of rock and rubble, the
guardsmen left him with food enough for a couple of days and stern
warnings never to return to Skampavia. Far to the west the miserable
merchant could see the comforting lights of Merryland, but he had no
desire to go there or east to the Kingdom of Ix. Instead, he stared
hopelessly across the wilderness to where the heaving sands of the
Deadly Desert gleamed like molten silver in the moonlight.

"How had that rascally monarch ever escaped without his seeing him?
How could he ever safely cross the Deadly Desert and hope to reach Oz?
How had Skamperoo, who seemed so dumb and foolish, ever discovered the
secret of using the magic emeralds when he himself had failed to do so?
How? How? How?" Crouched on a flat rock, munching one of the sandwiches
left by the guards, Matiah scowled evilly across the grim desert, his
thoughts as treacherous and shifting as its deadly sands.




CHAPTER 15

The Dooners!


All day, with only a short pause for lunch, Pigasus had flown north,
Dorothy keeping a sharp lookout for Thunder Mountain or mountains of
any sort, but the wild, desolate country through which they were flying
was flat, desert-like and apparently perfectly uninhabited.

"A fine healthy chance we have of finding an army here!" snorted
Pigasus as the afternoon drew to a hot, weary close, "and what we'll
do when we find Thunder Mountain, I haven't the faintest notion, have
you? Even if I butt my nose black, blue and blunt, and you break both
knuckles beating on its rocky exterior, how can we ever hope to enter
such a place, much less release our unfortunate sovereigns? I told you
Kalico was a scoundrel; I'll wager he's sent us on a wild goose chase
just to get us out of the way."

    "Ah, don't say I told you so,
    There's always some way, you know,"

said Dorothy almost as down-hearted as Pigasus, though she would not
admit it. The pink pig, rather ashamed of himself, flew for several
miles without saying anything, then, in rather a gruff voice, he called
Dorothy's attention to the changing nature of the scenery below.

"Notice the hills?" he snorted, more hopefully. "Maybe there is a
mountain, after all, but the sun's going down and I'm ready to sink
myself, so let's descend and see whether we can find a soft rock on
which to lay our heads."

"Not hills, dunes!" cried Dorothy, bouncing off as soon as Pigasus
touched the earth. "Sand dunes; we must be near the coast and the
Nonestic Ocean."

"It does smell salty," agreed Pigasus, sniffing the air eagerly, "but
suppose we save the ocean for tomorrow, my feet ache, my wings ache,
and I'm hollow as a drum."

"Then we'll have supper," decided Dorothy, sensibly. So seating
themselves comfortably with their backs against a dune, the two weary
explorers finished up all the cold meat, fruit, pie, and sandwiches
Shoofenwaller had packed up for them. After a long, wistful sniff into
the box convinced him there was not another crumb, Pigasus folded his
wings, lay down in the soft sand at the foot of the dune, giving only
indistinct grunts and snorts to Dorothy's questions and observations.
Finally, getting no answer at all, Dorothy discovered he was asleep.
The regular rise and fall of the pink pig's sides, the soft drowsy
singing of the west wind lulled Dorothy into a pleasant state of
dreaminess, and presently, with her head comfortably pillowed on the
pig's plump shoulder, she fell asleep too.

It must have been hours later when terrified squeals from Pigasus and
the patter of a hundred hurrying feet made her start up in alarm.
Still only half awake, she was startled to find herself and Pigasus
surrounded by a horde of savage-looking sandmen. In the pale and watery
moonlight they looked like creatures out of some very bad dream. Their
bodies were roughly moulded of sand, their eyes strangely green and
phosphorescent, while their hair, rising like beach grass from their
pointed heads, waved about their lumpy faces.

Clutching the basket that contained her small store of clothing, the
Black Witch's powder of darkness, and Potaroo's box of stumbling
blocks, Dorothy pressed back against the dune. Her first idea of
leaping on the pig's back and bidding him fly was useless. Pigasus lay
helplessly on his side, his wings and legs bound tightly with long
strands of tough, strong seaweed. Thankful to find that she at least
was free, Dorothy went a step closer to her struggling, squealing,
furious little comrade. As she did so, a perfect shower of sand balls
came flying toward them. The sharp sting of the sandmen's missiles not
only awoke her completely, but goaded her into instant and angry action.

"Stop that! Stop that at once!" she cried, stamping her foot
indignantly, but her words only brought another shower of sand balls
down on their heads.

"You have dared to invade the sacred domain of the Dooners," yelled
the rasping voice of the leader, rattling a long string of sea shells
he wore round his neck. "And therefore you shall be sand balled, sand
bagged and made into sandwiches for the sand crabs!"

If the Dooner had not looked so wild and dangerous, his foolish threat
might have been amusing, but as he and his bandy-legged sandmen came
leaping forward, Pigasus gave a squeal of sheer terror, and Dorothy,
raising the basket over her head, hurled it with all her might into the
midst of the advancing army. The effect was immediate and astonishing.
Cowering down beside Pigasus and expecting to be seized or trampled
on, Dorothy saw the first line of Dooners going down like a row of
tenpins, then all the others began tumbling and tripping and falling in
heaps. No sooner would a sandman rise than he would instantly tumble
down again, and their squalls and screeches of rage were so piercing
Dorothy put both hands over her ears.

"It's the blocks," wheezed Pigasus, managing to lift his head a few
inches. "Kalico's stumbling blocks are flying like fur and fury. Now if
they just keep 'em down for a while longer, we might get away."

Dorothy, peering sharply into the midst of the tumbling Dooners, saw
the fifty magic squares released from their box when she flung her
basket, fairly exploding with activity, and scramble up as they would
after each tumble, the sandmen could not advance an inch, nor even
manage to stand erect. The leader, attempting to crawl forward on his
hands and knees, was caught by a dozen of the whirling missiles and
rolled back like a log among his churning comrades.

"Hurray! Three cheers for Kalico!" puffed Pigasus. "Quick, my girl, see
if you can untie these wretched seaweeds and we'll be flying and be off
in a pigwhistle."

"I had a pair of scissors in my basket if it hasn't fallen out, and
anyway I'm not going without my things," declared Dorothy, now quite
bold since the enemy had been overcome by magic. And in spite of the
pig's anxious squeals of warning, she rushed forward, grabbed her
basket and began picking up her scattered belongings, noting with a
sigh of relief that the box containing the powder of darkness was still
closed. With the scissors, still safe in the little pocket in the side
of the basket, she soon clipped the seaweed trusses from Pigasus, and
clasping the basket in her arms climbed swiftly on his back. Pigasus,
without one backward glance, rose straight into the air and again
headed north. Dorothy, peering fearfully over his left wing, saw the
Dooners spring suddenly to their feet and then, like frightened prairie
dogs, disappear into many holes in the sand.

Funny, mused Dorothy, that they had not noticed these openings before.
Funny that the Dooners had stopped stumbling as soon as she and Pigasus
had taken to the air. Funny--but then, everything was funny. Right in
the middle of her conjectures the box of stumbling blocks, now closed
and tied with a red ribbon, dropped "plink" into the middle of her
basket.

"Someone's throwing things," gasped Pigasus, flapping his wings a bit
faster and looking rather wildly over his shoulder.

"No, just our box of stumbling blocks," yawned Dorothy. Now that the
excitement was over she felt dreadfully tired and even the sight of the
Nonestic Ocean rippling and gleaming a few yards ahead did not arouse
or interest her.

It did not interest Pigasus, either. He was far from pleased to find
himself so near the coast.

"I don't like this, I don't like this at all," muttered the pig,
perking up his ears and wiggling his nose rapidly. "We've flown
straight north and instead of striking Thunder Mountain, we strike the
sea, and how could a mountain be in the middle of the sea?"

    "There are mountains on islands and I have a notion
    There are plenty of islands out there in the ocean,"

said Dorothy sleepily, recalling the days she had studied geography in
the United States.

    "Take Japan, for instance, over there
    Mountains are simply everywhere!"

"I don't care if they are," answered Pigasus fiercely, "I won't go to
Japan and I'll not go a wing's breadth over this ocean tonight, islands
or no islands. Sa--hay! There's the North Star to our left, so we're
not going north at all. We're off our course, that's what we are!"

"North Star? North Star, of course we are!" mumbled Dorothy with a
drowsy nod.

"You're asleep," scolded Pigasus in a worried voice. "I'd better land."

"If you land too soon, you'll strike a dune," warned Dorothy with
another yawn. And after a quick glance below, and convinced they were
still over the Dooner's domain, Pigasus spread his wings a bit wider
and swung along the coast looking carefully for a safe place to land
and spend the rest of the night. He was so busy squinting downward that
he never saw the long curious tube-like shadow shooting after him with
incredible accuracy and speed. A terrific blast of air as it rushed by
them on the right was his first warning of danger. Dorothy, too, caught
unaware, gave a faint shriek as an immense snake-like body curved back
and began to coil round and round them like some gigantic air serpent.

"It is a snake!" thought poor Dorothy, as Pigasus hung helplessly in
the little circle of air left in the center of its coils. Neither
spoke, for truly there seemed nothing to say or do. Then just as the
suspense grew too awful to be endured, the monster opened its mouth and
Dorothy, backing as far along the pig's back as she possibly could,
almost lost her balance. Instead of a tongue or long tusks, out popped
the head and shoulders of a little old man no larger than Dorothy
herself.

"Pardon me," he murmured politely, "I was looking for a sea serpent."

"Do I look like a sea serpent?" snorted Pigasus in a quivering voice,
for he was still half choked from shock and fright. "If you and that
monster you're riding are looking for a sea serpent, go ahead--look for
one, but leave honest travelers alone!"

"Monster?" exclaimed the little man in a hurt voice. "Oh, I say now,
you have us all wrong. This is no monster, this is the long, strong,
flexible, stretchable SHOOTING TOWER of my private castle, and I,
myself, am Bitty Bit, the Seer of Some Summit."

In the short silence that followed Bitty Bit's astonishing
announcement, Dorothy, examining more closely the tube-like coils
encircling herself and Pigasus, saw that they really were of stone with
rubber-like sections between. What she had taken for a mouth was really
a window. With his elbow resting on the ledge, Bitty Bit was regarding
them fixedly.

"Well, even if you are a seer and have a shooting tower," grunted
Pigasus, gathering courage as he went along, "there is no reason for
you to come towering over us this way!"

"But a seer must be constantly looking for things," explained Bitty
Bit, spreading his hands expansively, "that, you know, is his business.
I am always looking for something and tonight it happens to be sea
serpents."

"Sorry to disappoint you," said Pigasus, more mildly, "but since we are
not sea serpents, perhaps you'll be good enough to unwind your tower.
As it happens, I have a little looking to do myself. As a matter of
fact, when you and your tower overtook us I was searching for a safe
place for this young Princess and myself to spend the night."

"Look no more!" begged Bitty Bit, leaning so far over the sill Dorothy
involuntarily put out her hand to save him from falling. "You shall
both spend the night in my castle. COME!" Grasping Dorothy by one hand
and Pigasus by one wing, the little seer with superhuman strength for
one so small and wrinkled dragged them both through the open window of
his shooting tower.




CHAPTER 16

The Seer of Some Summit


Since coming to Oz, Dorothy had traveled in many strange ways, but to
find herself shooting through the midnight sky in Bitty Bit's tower was
surely the oddest of all. Both she and Pigasus stared from the window
in wide-eyed wonder as the tower uncoiled and started shrinking rapidly
backward.

"We may as well go home at once," observed Bitty Bit, rubbing his
little hands briskly together. "You are much more interesting than sea
serpents and I can easily look for sea serpents some other night. Now
don't be alarmed when we bump."

"Bump?" repeated Dorothy rather nervously.

"Of course," the sage told her calmly. "As I go forward, the tower
stretches out in any direction I wish to go; when I return, it shrinks,
contracts, and retires within itself like a telescope, and by the time
we reach the castle it is no larger than an ordinary tower. Mm--better
hold on to something, we're almost there!" Running around the circular
room a few feet from the wall was a gold railing. Pigasus had just
time to hook his wing around this railing and Dorothy to seize it with
one hand, when Bitty Bit's tower with a resounding crash snapped back,
but up to a vertical position, so that what had been the floor of the
little room became the east wall and the window a skylight. Dorothy and
Pigasus, describing a complete circle on the bar, landed in a more or
less upside down position on what had been the back wall. "That's why
I have it cushioned," explained the seer, who also had executed a neat
somersault. Hopping up, as if landing on his head was a perfectly usual
and ordinary occurrence, Bitty Bit opened a trap door in the floor and
motioned for Dorothy and Pigasus to follow him down a long winding
stair.

"These magic contraptions will be the death of me," wheezed Pigasus,
picking himself up with a groan. The cushioned floor had made his fall
painless, but he was considerably jolted and upset from the shock, or
rather the series of shocks that had so far punctuated their evening.

"But if he's a seer," whispered Dorothy, recovering her basket and
trotting eagerly after Bitty Bit, "he ought to be able to help us a--"

"Bitty Bit," sniffed the pink pig. "Well, if he'll just help me to
a bed, I'll be satisfied!" and grunting and grumbling, he clumped
sleepily down the stairs behind Dorothy. The room into which the stone
stairway led them was evidently the cozy and comfortable study of
the comical little seer. Its walls were of oak, lined from floor to
ceiling with books, and all its furnishings were tan or brown. Dorothy
considered this extremely suitable as Bitty Bit himself looked like a
very wise and merry Brownie. On his little round head was a round cap
with a yellow quill and he wore a brown wrinkled robe rather like a
monk's, tied tightly round the waist with a yellow cord. His bright,
black, sharp little eyes danced with good humor and interest in his
sun-tanned, honest little face. While Pigasus stood sleepily and
somewhat disapprovingly on the hearth rug, Dorothy sank into a snug
brown arm chair and looked expectantly up at their singular host.

"No, no, not a word," begged Bitty Bit, raising his hand pleadingly.
"Remember, I am the Seer of Some Summit, a seer who can see and
foresee; a seer who can tell and foretell. Just by closing my eyes I
can tell who you are, whence you came, and whither you are going."

"Fancy that, now," observed Pigasus in a mocking voice.

"You," retorted Bitty Bit, pointing a skinny brown finger at the pig,
"you are a creation of my friend, the Red Jinn, whose taste for low
verse I always knew would lead him into some mischief."

"Low verses?" retorted Pigasus indignantly, while even Dorothy looked a
little shocked.

"Yes, low verses," insisted Bitty Bit solemnly. "You are so constructed
that he who rides must rhyme and break into foolish jingles. Is this
not so?"

"They may be jingles, but they are NOT low verse," protested Pigasus,
flapping his ears angrily.

"Well, then, let us call them simple verses," amended Bitty Bit with a
generous wave of the hand, "at least they are verses that anyone can
understand, which, of course, makes them of no value whatever. People
never appreciate what they can understand."

"Dorothy does," declared Pigasus, now mad enough to fly right out the
window.

"Dorothy? Ah, yes, I was coming to her." Swinging around, Bitty Bit,
his eyes still tightly shut, wagged his finger at the astonished little
girl. "You are the mortal girl who came to Oz by cyclone. You live in
the Emerald City of Oz and are--"

"Oh, tell us something we don't already know," interrupted Pigasus with
a bored yawn. "Where is Ozma of Oz now--how could a scalawag Emperor
steal her throne?"

"Wait! Wait! Give me time! Not a word more--not a word!" panted Bitty
Bit, advancing with short dancing steps toward Dorothy. "I--I see a
necklace," he muttered mysteriously. "One--two--three necklaces! I
see a white horse and a fat, red-faced fellow wearing a small emerald
crown. Great sea bass and sassafrass! Oz has been conquered--its
inhabitants enchanted--its rulers banished, and the King of Skampavia
sits on the throne."

"So that's where he comes from!" breathed Dorothy, forgetting Bitty
Bit's request for silence. "Oh, quick, tell us more--tell us more, and
help us to restore Ozma and the other lost sovereigns to power!"

"I am only a seer," answered the sage, opening his eyes wide and
suddenly. "I can see and foresee, tell and foretell, but I cannot
change that which has happened or is about to happen."

"But where is Ozma?" demanded Pigasus, edging closer. "If you are a
seer and can see 'er, at least you can tell us where she is." In this
way Pigasus hoped to check up the information given them by Potaroo,
the Gnome King's Wizard.

So again Bitty Bit closed his eyes and pressing his fingers to his
forehead spoke: "Ozma, my old friend Jinnicky, the Wizard of Oz, a
soldier with green whiskers, a purple horse, two Queens, two Kings, a
Prince, the Tin Woodman, and Glinda the Good Sorceress are lying at the
bottom of Lightning Lake, which is on the top of Thunder Mountain,"
Bitty Bit told them solemnly.

"Lightning Lake?" cried Dorothy, seizing the little seer frantically by
the shoulders. "Why, then, they must be drowned, burned and destroyed
altogether!"

"No, no--they are quite calm and as usual," Bitty Bit assured her
hastily, "in fact, they are, I should say, in a trance of some kind."

"But what'll we do, how'll we disenchant them or find Thunder
Mountain?" Loosing her hold on Bitty Bit, Dorothy spun round three
times and then started firmly for the door.

"My shooting tower will take you to Thunder Mountain or any other
place you decide you must go," promised Bitty Bit, hurrying anxiously
after the little girl, "but not tonight, Dorothy--not tonight. We
are all tired and I must have time to think. The conquering of Oz is
a great shock to me. I would like time to look into the matter more
fully and consider all of these strange events in their proper order.
This problem shall be my pillow. I'll sleep on it, my dear, and in the
morning will doubtless have something helpful to suggest."

"Well, then, where're the beds?" yawned Pigasus, who heartily approved
of Bitty Bit's suggestion. "Or are we to sleep on our problems, too?"
At this, Bitty Bit, who seemed to find Pigasus terribly amusing,
laughed right out loud, then taking Dorothy's arm he led the way to
a snug little bedroom all done in yellow. Pigasus had a gentlemanly
apartment in tan next door and both were so weary they spent little
time examining their new quarters, but instead went directly to bed and
to sleep.

When Dorothy wakened next morning she looked out the window and saw
Pigasus flying in slow circles round the tidy castle. Bitty Bit's brown
stone palace, though small and unpretentious, perched, right on top of
Some Summit, and the view was so fine and the mountain air so fresh and
invigorating, Dorothy, in spite of all her anxiety and worry, began to
feel happy and reckless and ready for anything. With cheerful little
glances round her cozy yellow room, she dressed, brushed her hair till
it shone, then skipped merrily down the brown marble steps and out
into the garden. The garden, really a series of sloping terraces, was
bright with hardy mountain posies, with spicy sage bushes and gnarled
old trees which clung like acrobats to the steep rocks and dangerous
crevices. Pigasus, catching a glimpse of Dorothy seated on a smooth
rock near a little waterfall, came swooping down to wish her a merry
morning.

"Not a bad little palace," remarked the pig considerately. "Not a bad
little palace at all, though so far as I can see there's not a man
servant nor a woman servant or even a ladybug about. I imagine this
fellow is a hermit and from the looks of him probably lives on tobacco
and snuff. What do you suppose are the chances for breakfast?"

"I don't know," said Dorothy, refusing to allow such a small matter as
breakfast to dash her spirits. "Have you seen Bitty Bit this morning?"

"Yes," sniffed Pigasus, beginning to poke his nose hungrily round the
roots of a dwarf oak, "before I flew out my window, I saw him going
into his brown study. Seer goes into brown study. How's that for the
first announcement of the day?"

"You're awful," laughed Dorothy, giving Pigasus a little push.

"No, just awfully hungry," grinned Pigasus. "Now I've been thinking--"

"NO?" Stepping out from behind a sizable bush, Bitty Bit regarded the
pig with an air of assumed amazement. "He says he's been thinking," he
repeated, turning solemnly to Dorothy. "Must be the air up here."

"That's about all I've had," retorted Pigasus, savagely crunching an
acorn between his teeth, "that and a nibble from one of your sage
bushes."

"Sage bush, eh?" chuckled Bitty Bit, winking at Dorothy. "That's
good, and we'll make a sage of you yet, a sausage!" he whispered in
an undertone that Pigasus heard quite distinctly. "And speaking of
sausage, how about breakfast?"

Though Bitty Bit's remark about the sausage still rankled, Pigasus
was too hungry to let it keep him from following the seer into a
small walled garden that opened out from the larger dining hall of
his castle. Here, on a small table covered with a gay yellow cloth,
was assembled the most appetizing breakfast Dorothy ever had tasted.
Ripe melon and apricots, cereal and eggs, tiny meat pies, pancakes
and honey, hot rolls and steaming brown cocoa. There was a huge bowl
of mush and cream for Pigasus and another of buttermilk, and under the
soothing influence of his favorite foods, Pigasus completely forgot
his annoyance and they were soon chattering away like old friends at
a Sunday School Picnic. Bitty Bit's chef, whom the pig had overlooked
in his grand tour of the palace, served them with skill and speed.
No wonder Pigasus had not seen him, for he was even smaller than his
wrinkled little Master and almost completely enveloped in a great brown
linen apron and tall brown cap. Dorothy could not possibly eat all the
dainties pressed upon her by the kind little seer and his chef, but she
nibbled at each course, and when Bitty Bit saw that neither she nor
Pigasus could down another bite, he swallowed the rest of his cocoa and
bounced briskly to his feet.

"Now," he cried, tossing away his gay napkin with a flourish. "Now for
the Emerald City and Oz!"

"But I thought we were going to Thunder Mountain," exclaimed Dorothy,
pushing back her chair so hurriedly she bumped her head on the wall.

"That," exclaimed Bitty Bit, looking over his shoulder, for he was
already half way through the door, "that will not be necessary. All we
need to save the celebrities of Oz is the long lost wishing emeralds of
Lorna the Wood Nymph."

"Lorna?" coughed Pigasus, rolling out of his seat and falling a bit
sideways. "For pretty sake, who's she?"

"Oh, come along!" urged Dorothy, and without wasting another second she
pelted into the brown palace after Bitty Bit.

With a groan Pigasus followed, and groaned again when he realized
he would have to climb three flights of marble steps and a flight of
stone to reach the famous shooting tower. Then, suddenly and joyfully
remembering his wings, he spread them wide.

"Wings, hold me up," mumbled the pink pig stuffily, "we're carrying
entirely too mush mush!" Rising rather uncertainly, he breathlessly
flapped his way up to the tower room where Dorothy and Bitty Bit
impatiently awaited him.




CHAPTER 17

Skamperoo in Oz


In the company of Scraps, the Scarecrow, the Royal Visitors, and all
the amusing members of Ozma's court, the Emperor and Chalk passed a gay
and hilarious morning. The tableaux and pageants proceeded without a
single hitch and no one seemed to miss Dorothy or Pigasus at all, nor
did anyone notice the omission of the carefully planned groups showing
the Wizard's arrival in Oz, Dorothy's first visit to the Emerald City
or the victory of Nick Chopper over the wolves. These interesting
and historical events might just as well never have happened. Notta's
circus later in the afternoon went off with a bang, even without
Pigasus to jump through hoops and fly round the ring waving flags while
Scraps did her balance-defying acts on the trapeze and tight rope. The
picnic supper was even more fun than the circus, and the fireworks, set
off by Tik Tok, who was in no danger of scorching himself, the best of
all. Indeed, Skamperoo's first day in the Emerald City had been so full
and so interesting he had not made a single wish or once thought of his
magic emeralds.

"Funny we never had jolly times like this at home," mused Skamperoo,
putting out the emerald stars in the ceiling that pleasantly lighted
his green apartment, and burrowing happily down into his splendid green
bed. "Oh, Chalk! Are you asleep there, old horse?" As no answer came
from the other bed, Skamperoo let himself sink a bit deeper into the
luxurious nest of silken covers and soon was asleep himself, puffing
and whistling like a steamboat.

But the strange and frightful snoring of the Emperor did not seem to
stop nor scare away the shadowy figure that presently came stealing
into the Royal Chamber. Once--twice--three times, long skinny fingers
reached out toward the thick neck of the snoring ruler of Oz. The
fourth time there were three distinct little clips, and when the
curving talon-like claw withdrew, it had in its clutching grasp the
three powerful wishing chains. Then, without waking the occupant of
either bed, the thief stole quietly into the shadows.

Now the Scarecrow, delighted with the success of the celebration so
far, had suggested a series of athletic contests and obstacle races
for next day and Skamperoo had heartily agreed to his plans. His first
thought on waking was the race to be run by the straw man and himself,
the Scarecrow on the wooden saw horse, he on his splendid white charger.

"I'll wear the white leather breeches and shirt," puffed Skamperoo,
bounding out of bed like a school boy. He had taken a shower and donned
his showy riding clothes before he missed his magic emeralds. Then,
all at once, as he stood before the mirror to comb his hair, he gave a
loud squall of anguish. "Chalk! Chalk!" roared the distracted Emperor,
racing over to the balcony and leaning so far out over the railing he
nearly fell on his crown. "They're gone! They're gone! My emeralds! My
necklaces! My necklaces! My emeralds!"

Now Chalk, who had risen early to nibble the clover while it was still
fresh with morning dew, looked up in alarm, then as his Master's voice
grew louder and louder and his gestures more spectacular and desperate,
the white horse rose up on his hind legs and shook his head in violent
warning and displeasure.

"Hush!" he directed in a low voice. "I'll be right up." Making his way
quickly but cautiously so as not to arouse the curiosity of any of the
palace servants, already at work in the lower hallways, Chalk hurried
up to the agitated Emperor.

"They're g-g--gone!" blubbered Skamperoo, sitting on the edge of the
bed and crying like a baby. "G--g-g-gone! Now everything is ruined and
I'll have nothing left at all!"

"Well, you still have me," murmured Chalk, resting his head
affectionately on Skamperoo's shoulder. "Brace up, Kingaling, and for
_oats_ sake be quiet! No one here knows about the necklaces and until
the rascal who has stolen them learns how to use them we are as safe
as soap. That rascal, of course, is Matiah. Somehow he has managed to
cross the Deadly Desert. Yes," Chalk shook his mane wrathfully, "I am
convinced that Matiah has the necklaces, but what good are they to him
when we alone know the secret that makes them work? He'll have to come
to us in the end and when he does! Hah!" Chalk expelled the air from
his nose in a terrific snort. "Just let me take care of him."

"But shouldn't we give the alarm, have a search made for him, and try
to recover the emeralds?"

"Let him alone," counseled the wishing horse firmly. "The thing for you
to do is to sit tight on the throne of Oz. Remember you are _still_ the
Emperor!"

"But how can I be, without those emeralds?" Skamperoo dabbed at his
eyes with the satin bed sheet.

"We got along all right yesterday," said Chalk calmly. "Come, cheer up,
Skamper, everything will be ALL right."

"I rather counted on beating the Scarecrow in that race this morning,"
muttered Skamperoo wistfully. "How can you run as fast as that tireless
wooden creature who was magically brought to life?"

"Well, wasn't I magically brought to life?" The white horse shook his
mane roguishly. "Come along, Kingaling, we'll not only win that race,
but we'll have back our necklaces and chase Matiah out of Oz before we
are through."

"I--I really believe you can do anything," sighed Skamperoo, getting
almost cheerfully to his feet. "But just the same, I shall keep a sharp
outlook for Matiah. He might start a revolution."

"He'll revolute pretty rapidly if I once get my heels on him," promised
Chalk with a wicked grin. "Come on--heads up, and who's afraid?"
However, in spite of the white horse's valiant attempts to comfort him,
Skamperoo spent a troubled and uneasy day, casting fearful glances
behind him when no one was looking, searching the happy holiday crowds
with haggard glances for a glimpse of the long, thin face of Matiah the
merchant. Even when Chalk beat the Sawhorse in their long, exciting
race through the park, and the crowds cheered themselves hoarse with
delight and approval, the victory was spoiled by the knowledge that
somewhere in the Emerald City lurked his most dangerous and relentless
foe.

Chalk, too, though he pretended to regard the matter lightly, was
almost as worried as his Master and spent every free moment poking his
head into doorways and peering down side streets and rearing up over
walls. And while Skamperoo was having his afternoon nap, the white
horse systematically searched the palace from top to bottom, even the
cellar.

But in the cellar Chalk did not go quite far enough, for it was in a
hollowed out chamber under the cellar that the merchant of Skampavia
was really hidden. Here, with a goodly supply of food, stolen from the
pantry, Matiah had seriously settled down to work out the problem of
the emerald necklace. He had meant to conceal himself in the cellar
itself, but when his foot brushed against an iron ring in the floor, he
had lifted it up and discovered to his delight and satisfaction this
still more secluded and safe retreat.

The tunnels and rocky chambers below the Palace had been constructed
and used by Ruggedo, the old Gnome King, when he was plotting to
capture the Emerald City. Ruggedo himself had been captured, but
the underground caves and passageways had been left pretty much as
they were. There were a number of chairs, a rough bed and table, and
numerous candles and lamps. Altogether it made an ideal workshop
for the merchant to try out his experiments. In the cellar he might
easily have been discovered by any of the kitchen boys sent down for
supplies, but in Ruggedo's old hideout he could be sure of complete
privacy. Lighting the largest of the lamps that hung on its rusty
chain over the table, Matiah seated himself on a rickety old chair
and prepared to concentrate with all his will power on the glittering
emeralds. In the sickly green light he made a strange and sinister
figure as he bent over the table, mumbling and chattering to himself.
But after a whole day, during which he tried every known formula and
combination, touching each gem in succession as he made his wish and
counted to a hundred, he was still no nearer the solution of the
mystery than he had been in Skampavia. First he had tried the diamond
clasp of the third necklace, sure that that was the key to their
power. But nothing at all had happened and the trick of the magic
emeralds continued to elude him. To have in his fingers the means to
immense power and good fortune and still be unable to benefit was
so infuriating, Matiah began to stamp, splutter, and beat his chest
with rage and disappointment. Was it for this he had bribed a red
eagle with the promise of three wishes to carry him across the Deadly
Desert? Even now the mammoth bird was waiting impatiently on the edge
of a little wood near the City ready to tear him to pieces if he
failed to fulfill his part of the bargain. No daylight penetrated into
the tunneled chamber, and hardly realizing that it was now midnight,
Matiah from sheer weariness and exasperation finally gave up and fell
asleep, his head on the table, his hands still clutching the provoking
chains. Footsteps pattering overhead wakened him at last, and also told
him someone had come to the cellar for supplies. Stretching wearily,
he rose and, going over to the stone steps, cautiously ascended and
lifted the trapdoor. Now thoroughly convinced that the necklaces would
not work unless worn by someone else, he determined to seize the first
person entering the cellar and compel him to help.

The merchant did not have long to wait. All unconscious of the part
he was to play in Matiah's dark schemes, a young Kitchen Boy came
whistling his way toward a great golden bin of potatoes. The bin was
just beyond the trapdoor, and lowering it to a mere crack, Matiah let
the boy pass. Then, as he leaned down to fill his basket, the wily
merchant flung up the trapdoor, fell upon the boy and carried him
kicking and screaming down the stairs. Here, with threats, promises
and innumerable shakings, he finally reduced the poor lad to a state
of frightened submission. With the sparkling necklaces round his neck,
he touched one and then another of the emeralds as Matiah wished and
counted and counted and wished. After each unsuccessful trial the
merchant would rage and stamp and shake his fists, till the boy was
quite convinced he was in the presence and power of a mad man, and
frantically waited for someone to overhear Matiah's ravings and come
down to rescue him. But nobody did!

While the unfortunate Kitchen Boy was spending a miserable morning in
the underground chamber, Skamperoo and Chalk were going through the
motions of enjoying themselves above stairs, but without any real zest
or pleasure. Only half-heartedly Skamperoo laughed at the jokes of the
Scarecrow, and Chalk, for all his bright interest in the long recital
of Kabumpo's adventures, was really in a fidget of uneasiness, trying
to keep an eye on all the doors and windows in the Throne Room at
once. Something was going to happen. The white horse felt it in every
bone. And just as the soft musical gong sounded the call for luncheon,
his worst fears were realized. Suddenly, without reason or warning,
the castle was plunged into total darkness. Thumps, bumps, hysterical
shouts and screams followed closely on the heels of this disconcerting
event. Chalk, who had been standing back of Skamperoo, immediately
leaned forward and grasped his impetuous little Master by the seat of
his Royal Breeches.

"Be still!" commanded the white horse through his teeth and the white
leather of Skamperoo's riding pants, and he held on for dear life as
the Emperor, like all the rest of the court and guests tried to rush in
every direction.

"He's done it! He's done it, and everything, is ruined," wailed
Skamperoo, struggling in vain to pull away from Chalk. "Matiah has
discovered the secret of the necklaces and now we are ruined--do you
hear--ruined!"

"I hear," hissed Chalk, giving Skamperoo a little shake, "and so will
everyone else unless you shut your mouth. Be quiet, I tell you, do
nothing till the right moment, unless you want to dash out your brains
against a pillar in the dark." Too frightened to argue or struggle
further, Skamperoo at last subsided. All about courtiers, servants,
and guests were screaming and bumping into each other or the furniture,
and when a stern hand suddenly seized his bridle, Chalk trembled
violently in spite of himself.

"Follow me," directed a firm, stern little voice, "and no harm will
come to you." Now Chalk had been expecting to see or hear Matiah,
and the sound of this small strange voice was a welcome relief and
surprise. Taking a firmer hold on Skamperoo, he thrust out his head in
an endeavor to touch or feel the newcomer. As he did so, the hand on
his bridle began to tug him gently but firmly forward.

"Look out there, mind what you are about, the Emperor of Oz is just
ahead!" whinnied Chalk, now thoroughly alarmed. "We are not used to
taking orders from strangers."

"Oh, we won't be strangers long," promised the strange voice
pleasantly. "So THIS is the Emperor of Oz, and is this the way you
usually carry him?"

"Come on Bitty Bit, what's the use of all this arguing?" put in another
voice impatiently. "Let's get out of that confusion. The Wizard's
laboratory is right across the hall. Tell him to come there."

"A girl!" decided Chalk with another gulp of relief. "Maybe we are
not so badly off, after all!" And lifting his head, in spite of
Skamperoo's great weight, he spoke proudly and confidently, "Whoever
you are, we welcome you to Oz, and if you can explain this unearthly
and unexpected darkness we will gladly follow you and do as you say."

"Good!" chuckled Bitty Bit, tugging manfully at his bridle, "this way,
please." There was still so much screaming and confusion in the Throne
Room no one had overheard the conversation between the newcomers and
the Emperor's horse, and, guided by the invisible hand, Chalk crossed
the room without bumping into anything or anybody. A moment later they
were in the dark, quiet laboratory that had once belonged to the Wizard
of Oz.




CHAPTER 18

The Emperor's Horse Makes a Bargain


Bitty Bit's shooting tower had made a record trip to the Emerald City,
and guided by the little Seer of Some Summit, had come to a deft and
dexterous stop right outside the windows of the great Throne Room.
After a short, anxious look inside, and before anyone was aware of
their arrival, Dorothy removed the lid from the box of the powder of
darkness and threw a generous pinch into the air, plunging the Emerald
City into an instant and thunderous dark. Under cover of this magic
darkness, Dorothy, Pigasus, and Bitty Bit boldly entered the palace and
singled out the white horse and his terrified Master. They had fully
expected some resistance--Dorothy had brought a long piece of rope and
Pigasus carried a stout club under his wing--but they were delighted
to find the Emperor too frightened and his white horse too clever to
resist an invisible foe. Being able to see in the dark themselves, they
had Chalk and Skamperoo at a decided advantage. Dorothy's plans, now
that they had actually returned to the Emerald City, were rather vague,
but Bitty Bit knew just what he hoped and intended to do. His seerish
powers had enabled him to discover that all the changes in Oz had been
brought about by the magic emeralds which in some way had fallen into
Skamperoo's hands, and these emeralds Bitty Bit meant to have at the
earliest possible moment.

So first, he ordered all the windows and doors in the laboratory
closed, then, annoyed by the screams and crashes still issuing from
every room in the castle, he advised Dorothy to put the lid back on the
powder of darkness.

"But supposing someone disturbs us before we finish," objected Pigasus,
looking doubtfully at the tremendous war horse, who stood with feet
braced and ears back ready to listen or defy them. Somehow Chalk had
managed to toss Skamperoo back into the saddle and with both hands
fixed grimly in the horse's mane, the Emperor was blinking his eyes in
a vain attempt to see them or catch a glimpse of Matiah, for he was
convinced that the merchant was at the bottom of the whole procedure.

"If we agree to lift this pall of darkness, will you agree to grant us
an uninterrupted hour of your time?" asked Bitty Bit, turning toward
the Emperor, but really addressing the horse, whom he considered the
better man of the two.

"I think we can, without undue danger, promise that," answered Chalk
guardedly, while Skamperoo hemmed and hawed with indecision. "Of
course, you must promise to use no more magic against us."

"Well, the same goes for you too, remember," put in Pigasus quickly.
"An hour's time and conversation and no trickery."

"But who--who are you?" muttered Skamperoo, finding his voice at last.
"I seem to hear three different voices."

"You'll soon see," answered Dorothy, clapping the lid on her powder of
darkness. With a suddenness that made them all gasp, the laboratory
was again flooded with the bright noon sunshine, and in a determined
row before him Skamperoo saw a pretty little girl in green, a fat pink
pig with white wings, and a small wrinkled old gentleman in brown.

"W-why--" whinnied Chalk, drawing in a deep breath of relief, "at first
I thought you were enemies, but now I see that you are merely visitors
and friends."

"That depends," observed Bitty Bit, seating himself on a tall stool
that brought him on a level with Chalk's nose. "I am the Seer of Some
Summit, but these others are Princess Dorothy and Pigasus, the Winged
Pig. They really belong in this palace and are close friends of the
rightful ruler of this country, Ozma of Oz!"

"I am the rightful ruler of Oz!" shouted Skamperoo, growing red in the
face and thrusting out his three chins belligerently.

"Oh, don't bother putting on a show for me," exclaimed Bitty Bit,
waving his arms impatiently. "Remember, I am a Seer, I know all, I see
all, and what is more, I TELL ALL! You, my pretty fellow, are really
the King of Skampavia, a small, no-count country on the other side of
the Deadly Desert. In some way the long-lost necklaces of Lorna the
Wood Nymph have come into your possession. With these necklaces you
have enchanted the people of Oz into believing you are their ruler.
You have wickedly banished Ozma and her allies and counselors and
unlawfully made yourself Emperor of Oz."

"That seems to cover everything," drawled Chalk, as Skamperoo turned
from red to purple.

"Not everything!" went on Bitty Bit, shaking his finger sternly under
Chalk's nose. "Kingdoms are not won and held by trickery, my friends,
and we are here to see that those necklaces are returned and the
Kingdom of Oz restored to its proper rulers."

"And suppose we refuse!" suggested the white horse in a bored voice.
"What then?"

"Why then," Bitty Bit threw back his shoulders and spun round several
times on his shiny stool, "why then it means WAR!" Bitty Bit did not
say who were his friends or allies or where he should get his armies,
but he spoke with such firm confidence, both Skamperoo and Chalk were
taken aback and completely dismayed. Matiah had been bad enough, but
this strange and determined little Seer was worse.

"Perhaps we can make a bargain, or come to some agreement?" suggested
Chalk, resolved to save what he could for himself and his Master.
"Suppose King Skamperoo and I agree to return the emerald necklaces,
which undoubtedly belong in Oz, will you grant us the privilege of
using them twice for ourselves?"

"But--but--" Skamperoo was about to blurt out the fact that they no
longer had the necklaces when Chalk gave him a savage nip on the leg
which silenced him effectively.

"Why should we do that?" inquired Pigasus, fluttering his wings
nervously. "After all the grief and worry you have caused us, you are
lucky to get off with your skins."

"Where are the necklaces now?" asked Dorothy, stepping close to Chalk
and looking eagerly up into the face of the discomfited Emperor.
Skamperoo's face grew long as a balloon suddenly punctured, but
remembering Chalk's last bite, he managed to keep silent.

"When you have answered OUR question, we will answer yours," stated
Chalk, firmly but pleasantly. "You can, of course, appeal to the Court
and members of the household, but I think you will find them entirely
satisfied with their present Emperor and ready to stand by him to the
last man." At Chalk's words, Bitty Bit looked rather crestfallen. As
the white horse had so quietly stated, they were perfectly powerless
to take the necklaces by force and a quick inspection of the Emperor,
when he first reached the palace, had convinced him Skamperoo was not
wearing the precious emeralds. At this rather embarrassing moment a
series of thumps, kicks, and knocks on the door made not only the
rescuers, but the Emperor and Chalk turn rather pale.

"Oh! Oh! It's Matiah!" quavered Skamperoo, whose nerves were
completely shaken by the shocking disclosures of the last few moments.
"Oh! Oh! What'll we do now?"

"Hold your tongue," advised Chalk, and swinging round he trotted
briskly over to the door.

"Who's there?" he demanded in a dignified voice.

"'Tis I-Iva the Kitchen Boy!" stuttered a frightened treble. "I must
see the Emperor at once."

"Well, shall we let him in?" Bitty Bit looked uneasily at Pigasus and
Dorothy and then rather thoughtfully at Chalk.

"Suit yourselves," yawned the white horse indifferently. "It's probably
a messenger telling us the pudding is cold with all this delay and
darkness. You asked for an hour's time and conversation and we agreed
to that demand, so it is for you to decide what to do, not us."

"Oh, let him in," fumed Pigasus, "and tell him to stop this hammering
and yammering. What harm is there in a Kitchen Boy?"

So Bitty Bit, taking the key from the lock and squinting through the
keyhole to assure himself there was only a small boy outside, quickly
admitted him. Now in darted Iva, screaming loudly of a mad man in the
cellar and bursting into tearful and incoherent recital of his woes.
Scarcely had he got out two sentences before Skamperoo fell bodily off
his horse and made a desperate snatch at the Kitchen Boy's throat. But
Bitty Bit was too quick for him. His eyes, too, had caught the glimmer
of emeralds, and jerking the three chains from the lad's neck as Chalk
made a savage lunge forward, he tossed them to Pigasus. Catching them
on his nose as cleverly as a trained seal, the pink pig spread his
wings and flew up to the top of a tall cabinet, where he sat panting
and puffing with satisfaction and defiance.

"Come down, you fat scoundrel!" roared Skamperoo, dancing up and down
like a dervish, while the poor Kitchen Boy, outraged by the way both
Skamperoo and Bitty Bit had rushed upon him, burst into loud sobs and
rushing out the still open door, ran crying down the corridor. Slamming
the door and locking it after him, Bitty Bit rather anxiously waited
for Chalk's next move, and as usual Chalk was quite prepared and ready
to make it.

"Well," he observed with a jaunty flick of his tail, "now that you have
the famous wishing emeralds, I suppose you are satisfied and we may as
well go. Come along, Skamperoo, you will get nowhere in an argument
with a pig. Just casting pearls before swine, you know, and he already
has our emeralds!"

"You mean your wishing necklaces!" shrieked Pigasus furiously, "and
I'll tell you what I wish. I wish that you and your silly Master were
clams at the bottom of the Nonestic Ocean!" Thoroughly shocked and
startled by the pink pig's unexpected wish, Bitty Bit and Dorothy
rushed toward the cabinet, hoping in some way to prevent the wish from
taking effect. But they need not have worried, for of course, nothing
happened at all. Then Skamperoo, urged by Chalk, hastily climbed into
the saddle.

"Well," whinnied the white horse, twitching his ears provokingly,
"goodbye to you. Goodbye! We'll just be trotting along."

"Wait! Look here, hold on a bit." The little Seer of Some Summit
stepped angrily in front of the white horse. "How do these emeralds
work, how are we to disenchant the rulers of Oz and restore Ozma to the
throne unless we know the proper way to use these magic chains?"

"I'm afraid that's YOUR problem," sighed Chalk, rolling his eyes round
at Skamperoo. "Come now, my little mannikin, open up the door. We kept
our promise and you must keep yours. After all, my Master has done no
real harm here. There has been no war or bloodshed. In fact, everything
has been decidedly gay and jolly. If his laudable ambition to better
himself brought Ozma and her counselors a little well-earned rest, at
least they have suffered no pain or unpleasantness, and are perfectly
unaware of what has happened to them. Open the door, I tell you, or
I'll call for help and there are many in this palace who would gladly
come to our assistance."

"Oh! Oh! What shall we do?" wailed Dorothy, as Bitty Bit stood
uncertainly with his back to the door. "You're the horridest horse I've
ever known!"

"Well, that's all in the way you look at me," answered Chalk, staring
steadily into Dorothy's eyes. "You, my dear, are fond of your Mistress,
Queen Ozma of Oz, and are trying to help her. I, on my part, am
exceedingly fond of my Master, the King of Skampavia, and am trying to
help him. You can't blame me for that, you know."

"The creature is right," sighed Bitty Bit, "and we'll have to agree to
his plans, preposterous though they are."

"That would, of course, be the sensible thing to do," murmured Chalk,
lowering his eyes modestly. "You grant me two wishes and I will tell
you the proper way to use the magic wishing chains."

"But suppose they are bad wishes--I mean," Bitty Bit corrected himself
hastily, "good for you, but bad for us, what then? With the necklaces
in your possession, you could wish yourselves away in an instant."

"That," admitted Chalk, "is perfectly true, but I am afraid you will
have to take that chance--and trust me."

"Never do it! Never do it!" squealed Pigasus, who now had the necklaces
tucked tightly under his wing. "We might as well throw ourselves out of
the window."

But Bitty Bit, closing his eyes and pressing his fingers close to
his forehead, made no reply. "I'll trust you," he said after a short
silence, and opening his eyes he looked cheerfully up at the white
horse. "Hand down those necklaces, Pigasus, and be quick about it too;
I hear footsteps in the passageway."

"Well, don't blame me if we're turned to pretzels and pumpernickel,"
grunted the pig, dropping the necklaces into the seer's outstretched
hand. "Goodbye, all." Turning his back in disgust and covering his
ears with his wings, Pigasus waited in fear and trembling for the
end. But Bitty Bit quite calmly handed the emeralds to Skamperoo, and
Skamperoo immediately draped them over Chalk's left ear.

"Now, then," murmured Chalk, looking firmly back at the unhappy
Emperor, "repeat exactly what I say and all will yet be well."

"I wish," began Chalk, while Skamperoo listened with bulging eyes, "I
wish that the five wishes I make when we return to Skampavia shall be
instantly granted." As Skamperoo repeated the wish and slowly started
to count to a hundred, Dorothy fidgeted with uneasiness and Pigasus
fairly groaned with alarm, for it seemed to them both that their danger
had only been postponed and not averted.

"My second wish I will keep for our return," decided Chalk. "Now, my
dear, attend closely. Since you are the avowed friend of Ozma and live
with her in this palace, it seems to me you are the one to keep safely
the secret of the magic emeralds." Moving close to Dorothy, Chalk put
his soft pink nose close to her ear and whispered several very hoarse
sentences. "Get it? Get it?" he demanded, backing away exuberantly.

"Oh--is THAT all?" Dorothy pushed back her hair in surprise and
bewilderment, "why anyone could do that!"

"Then prove it by sending us back to Skampavia," beamed Chalk, shaking
his mane approvingly. "It would be embarrassing for us to be here when
Ozma and her friends return. Here, my child, take the necklaces and
I'll do the wishing." Pigasus, now more interested than frightened,
tried his best to see what Dorothy did after she clasped the emeralds
around her neck and the white horse solemnly wished himself and
Skamperoo back in Skampavia, but before Chalk reached ten in his
counting, there was a whiff and puff and except for a slight rustle in
the air, no sign at all of the splendid white steed and his red-faced
Master.

"It works! It works!" exulted Bitty Bit, hopping about like a Brownie.
"Can you do it again, my dear? All we need to do is to wish that the
people of Oz shall be released from this wicked spell of forgetting and
then wish Ozma and all the others safely back to this palace."

"Don't forget Highboy!" cried Pigasus, switching his little tail
violently. "He's gone, too, you know, and don't forget Jinnicky and old
Willy Green Whiskers!"

"I'll remember!" promised Bitty Bit. "All ready, Dorothy?" The little
girl nodded and Bitty Bit, looking and feeling more serious and
important than he had ever felt in his whole little life, slowly made
the wish that was to restore peace and happiness to Oz.

"I wish," said the little sage sternly, "that the wicked enchantment
cast by Skamperoo upon the inhabitants of Oz be instantly dispelled. I
wish that Ozma herself, the Wizard of Oz, the Red Jinn of Ev, the King
and Queen of the Munchkins and their son Prince Philador, the King and
Queen of the Gillikens and their giant horse, Glinda the Good Sorceress
of the South, Nick Chopper the Tin Emperor of the East, and the Soldier
with the Green Whiskers be immediately released from Thunder Mountain
and restored to this palace. One--two--three--four--five--six--seven."

At seven Pigasus with a loud squall of astonishment fell from the top
of the cabinet, and Dorothy rushed joyfully forward. For now, every
chair around the Wizard's table was occupied. At the head sat Ozma,
calm and gracious as ever, at the foot the spry little Wizard, and
between, all the others who had so recently lain at the bottom of
Lightning Lake. Highboy stood over by the window looking dreamily out
across the garden and none of them seemed in the least surprised or
excited to find themselves in the Wizard's laboratory.

"Let--me--see--" mused Ozma, raising her hand gravely--"Ah, yes--we are
here to discuss a threatened danger to ourselves and the Kingdom of Oz."

"But it's all over now," cried Dorothy, running over to Ozma and
flinging both arms round her waist. "It's all over and we're safe and
you're safe, and my, how glad we are to have you back here again!"

"Here!" exclaimed the Wizard, popping up like a startled
Jack-in-the-Box, "where else would we be?"

"Only at the bottom of Lightning Lake in Thunder Mountain," murmured
Bitty Bit, coming modestly forward to meet the Fairy Ruler of Oz and
winking merrily at Jinnicky, whom he already knew.




CHAPTER 19

The Story of the Necklaces


Ozma's surprise and the astonishment of all the rest of that company
around the Wizard's table can well be imagined.

"I didn't hear any thunder," snorted Highboy, lowering himself down
to Bitty Bit's level. "Not a clap! And if we were at the bottom of
Lightning Lake, what did we eat?"

"We didn't!" announced Jinnicky in a hollow voice, "what COULD we
have eaten in such a place, you old fire-eater, you?" To have been
enchanted and put out of existence for three whole days was an amazing
experience, and as Dorothy and Bitty Bit, helped out now and then by
Pigasus, explained all that had happened to the victims of Skamperoo's
ambition and to themselves in the course of their journey of rescue,
Ozma's face grew both grave and serious. It was disturbing to realize
how easily Oz had been captured and the powerful Wizards and Glinda the
Sorceress pushed aside. The Wizard of Oz himself seemed to feel the
most discouraged and downcast of all to think he had been so easily
overcome, and that his magic had not been strong enough to withstand
the wicked spell of the invaders.

"I should have foreseen something like this, and been prepared,"
mourned the little man, mopping his head with a map of Oz which he
happened to have in his pocket.

"Yes," sighed the Tin Woodman, feeling his joints anxiously to see
whether they had been rusted by his three-day immersion in Lightning
Lake, "we might have been prisoners in Thunder Mountain forever had it
not been for Dorothy and Pigasus and this sagacious little Seer. But
tell me, Dorothy, how was it that you alone, of all the people in the
palace, remembered and missed us?"

"Well," confessed Dorothy, seating herself cautiously on Nick Chopper's
tin knees, "it must have been the Wizard's wishing pill. You see,
just as the Soldier's beard turned red, I found one in my pocket, and
popping it into my mouth, wished that I might save Oz from any danger
that threatened. It kept me from forgetting Ozma and all of you, and
when I sat on Pigasus' back, he remembered, too, and we--"

"Did save Oz!" finished the little Wizard, bounding triumphantly to
his feet and restored to instant cheerfulness by Dorothy's generous
statement. "I tell you, I'll match my wishing powers with any wishing
powers in the country!"

"But you won't have to, now," smiled Bitty Bit with an envious glance
at the sparkling necklaces Dorothy had placed on the table before Ozma.
"With these emeralds and your own magic powers, nothing like this could
ever happen in Oz again."

"Thank you, Bitty Bit," smiled the little Queen, nodding graciously.
"Thank you a hundred times for all you have done for us and for Oz, and
perhaps, if we coaxed, you might remain as our Royal Seer?"

"Hear, hear, our Royal Seer!" cried Pigasus, clapping his wings. "Will
you be it, Sir Bitty Bit?"

"Well," acknowledged Bitty Bit, with a low bow toward Ozma, "I'm
tempted to accept, but, on the other hand, I am so foolishly fond of my
own castle, I just could not be content in any other place. But if Your
Majesty ever needs me for serious business, you can always command my
services by using either the wishing necklaces or your magic belt."

"And he'll come like a shot in his shooting tower," Dorothy smiled as
she slid carefully from Nick Chopper's knee. "But, say--what's that?"
A hundred footsteps sounded in the corridor, accompanied by confused
voices, questioning calls and finally loud thumps on the door. "It must
be all the rest of the courtiers and visitors remembering they have a
Queen!"

"I hear Scraps and the Scarecrow," squealed Pigasus, "I hear Bettsy
Bobbin and Trot. Quick, Dorothy, open the door."

"No, no, not yet," said Ozma gently but firmly. "There is more, much
more for us to hear and settle. But you go out, Pigasus, and tell them
all about our enchantment, Skamperoo's reign and our rescue."

"Be glad to! Charmed! And trust me to do it right." Swelling up with
importance and pride, Pigasus flew out the window before Dorothy
had time to open the door. A few moments later, the company in the
Wizard's laboratory heard him calling everyone to follow him to the
Throne Room and hear the most startling news since Dorothy killed the
wicked Witches of the East and West.

"And how he'll love telling it," said Bitty Bit, smiling across at the
Wizard of Ev. "A great idea of yours, this pig, Jinny. Even if his
verses are low, I like him."

"Oh, everyone likes Pigasus," declared Dorothy, coming over to sit
on the arm of Glinda's chair. "But what I'd like to know is how that
Kitchen Boy happened to have the emeralds, how Skamperoo got them and
where they came from in the first place?"

"Yes," murmured Glinda, who, like the Wizard, felt very much annoyed
to have been overpowered by a fat, unimportant monarch like Skamperoo.
"Now that we have these wishing chains, we must guard them carefully to
keep them from falling into such mischievous hands again."

"I believe Bitty Bit can tell us the story of the emeralds," said Ozma,
who had been much impressed by the cheerful little seer of Some Summit.
"With his gift of foreseeing and foretelling he probably knows the
whole story."

"Can he look backward as well as forward?" inquired the Wizard
challengingly.

"Just as well," confessed Bitty Bit with an embarrassed little cough,
and as every head turned expectantly toward him, the sage closed his
eyes and quietly told them the interesting history of Matiah's three
necklaces.

"These magic emeralds," began Bitty Bit, waving his hands rhythmically
backward and forward, "were first collected and strung into necklaces
by a wizard named Wam for the King of the Green Mountain as a gift for
the wood nymph Lorna. But the King of the Green Mountain was an ugly
little dwarf, and though she had promised to marry him, no sooner did
Lorna have the necklaces than she turned the King into a frog and hid
herself away in her own forest. In the giant hollow tree where Lorna
lived there was a mischievous family of squirrels. That night, as Lorna
lay sleeping with the emeralds on a little golden plate beside her,
one of the squirrels, thinking the gems some new and delicious kind of
nuts, stole and buried them away for the winter. Next morning, though
Lorna ran crying and searching all through the forest, she was unable
to find her wishing necklaces."

"Then what became of them?" gasped Dorothy as Bitty Bit, opening his
eyes for a moment, blinked cheerfully over their heads.

"Wait, I'll tell you!" Closing his eyes, the sage went hurriedly on
with the story. "Ah, so this is it! A woodcutter's boy, poking about
among the leaves, found the emeralds and as emeralds in themselves
are not uncommon in Oz, he traded them to a peddler for a new ax. The
peddler, arriving after a long while in Skampavia, had no trouble in
disposing of the jewels. In Skampavia, you must know, emeralds, pearls,
or jewels of any kind are practically unknown, and a merchant gave the
peddler not only his house and shop, but all of his merchandise for the
three sparkling chains. By a law in Skampavia every subject must render
to the King one-third of all he owns or raises, and in due course, one
of the necklaces was sent to Skamperoo. The King, delighted with the
sparkling gems, insisted on having all three necklaces, and Matiah
himself brought them to the castle, determined, if possible, to steal
them back at the first opportunity. In order to do so without arousing
the suspicions of the King, he pretends to be a Wizard and tells him if
he, Matiah, wears the three necklaces, he can grant any wish the King
may make, but that as he makes the wish he must close his eyes and
count to a hundred. As soon as Skamperoo began to count, Matiah started
to run off with the emeralds and that accounts for the white horse,
for you see Skamperoo's first wish was for a splendid white charger
with a golden mane and tail. Frightened almost out of his senses by
the sudden appearance of the horse and the knowledge that the chains
really did have some magic power, Matiah steals back beside the King,
resolved to wait for another opportunity to procure the necklaces.
Meanwhile, Skamperoo, excited and happy over the granting of his first
wish, confides in the merchant his second wish and ambition to be ruler
of Oz. Matiah, to gain time in which he can work out the secret of the
emeralds' power, approves of the King's idea, but tells him he can
only grant one wish a week. He then advises Skamperoo to cause all the
people in Oz to forget their former rulers and to remove the Wizard and
all his magic, Ozma, and the rulers of the four Oz countries to the
inaccessible caverns of Thunder Mountain.

"Now while Matiah is trying his best to discover the trick of the magic
emeralds, Skamperoo, growing tired of the tempery fellow, appealed
to his horse. The horse, being magically brought to life and being
unusually sharp-witted and quick, soon worked out the problem. With his
help Skamperoo wished the spell of forgetting upon Ozma's subjects,
banished her Highness and all of the others just as Matiah had
suggested and managed to rule Oz for three whole days."

"But what became of Matiah?" asked Glinda, leaning forward eagerly.

"At this moment Matiah is lying in a senseless condition in the
underground chamber beneath this castle," Bitty Bit told them solemnly
and without opening his eyes. "Soon after Skamperoo left for Oz, the
merchant was driven out of Skampavia by Pinny Penny, whom Skamperoo had
made King. Matiah, furious to think the apparently stupid sovereign had
outwitted him, bribed an eagle to carry him across the desert, arrived
at the Emerald City and soon afterward managed to really steal the
necklaces from Skamperoo. Discovering beneath the cellar the excavated
chambers of the old Gnome King, he retired to this quiet spot to again
experiment with the emeralds. Needing another person to help, he seized
the Kitchen Boy who had come to the cellar for supplies and forced him
to assist in his experiments. How soon he might have discovered the
real trick of the chains I cannot say, but our own arrival and Gloma's
powder of darkness happily interrupted him. The Kitchen Boy, who had
kept his eyes glued to the stone steps and trapdoor during the entire
morning, made an immediate dash for freedom and managed to escape in
spite of the darkness. Matiah, not so fortunate, rushed into a stone
pillar and knocked himself senseless. He's still lying there, and I
suggest that your Majesty deal with him at once."

"I will," decided Ozma firmly, as Bitty Bit opened his eyes and looked
cheerfully around the table. "And I'll do it by means of these very
magic emeralds. Put on the emeralds, Dorothy, for you alone know the
secret of their magic power." So Dorothy, anxious to have Matiah out
of Oz before he recovered his wicked wits, hastily clasped the three
chains around her slim throat.

"It is my earnest wish that Matiah shall immediately and henceforth
forget the emerald necklaces of Oz, return to his country and become a
good and simple citizen of Skampavia," said Ozma seriously, beginning
her count to one hundred.

"He's gone! He's gone!" piped up Bitty Bit, who had closed his eyes as
soon as Ozma started to speak. "And if I were you, my dear, I would
send off that red eagle too. I see him lurking on the edge of our city
with an exceedingly fierce light in his eye." So Ozma made another
wish, turning the eagle to a harmless sparrow.

"And what about Skamperoo?" asked Cheeriobed, King of the Munchkins,
who up to this time had not spoken a word. "Should he not be punished
in some way?"

"I would not bother with old Skamper," advised Bitty Bit with a small
chuckle. "Before I agreed to give his white horse those five wishes,
I closed my eyes, looked ahead, and discovered that they would all be
good wishes. Not only good but wise, and from now on I think you can
trust that clever white horse and a little fellow called Pinny Penny to
keep their Master out of mischief and Oz."

"Well, in that case," sighed Ozma, rather breathless from so much
counting, "everything is happily settled."

"And in that case," boomed Joe King, gallantly helping his little Queen
to her feet, "I suggest we start celebrating all over again, not only
the discovery of Oz by mortals, but the saving of Oz as well! I, for
one, feel terribly cheated at missing Notta's circus."

"So do I! So do I!" exclaimed little Prince Philador, climbing
boisterously into Highboy's saddle. "I want to see a circus!"

"And so you shall," promised Ozma gaily, "we will start the celebration
at exactly the point where we left Oz for Thunder Mountain, and have
the tableaux, the pageants, and the picnics all over again."

And that, my dear, is exactly what they _did_ do, and everyone,
including Bitty Bit, enjoyed himself so much there was not an unhappy
person in the Emerald City. And not until the end of the second day did
Dorothy remember to tell Ozma the magic secret of the wishing emeralds.

"On the sixth count, you wink both eyes," whispered Dorothy, giving
Ozma a little hug. "Good night!"

"Good gracious, so THAT'S it!" smiled Ozma, comprehending instantly
what Dorothy meant. "I suppose Matiah did it in sheer excitement the
first time. Well, I have often heard of doing things in the twinkling
of an eye, but now we shall really be able to have them that way.
No one knows this secret but you and me and a white horse, and no
one _must_ ever know it, for wishes are dangerous and cause more
unhappiness than joy, so we'll never tell another soul, will we,
Dorothy?"

"Never!" agreed the little girl, looking solemnly over her shoulder at
the safe where Ozma had hidden her new treasure.




CHAPTER 20

Back in Skampavia!


"So there you are!" Pinny Penny straightened up with a little
grimace, for he had been planting flowers in a new rock garden he was
planning for the King. With an expression about equally compounded of
exasperation and affection, he looked at his former Master and the
white horse who had, without sound or warning, dropped down in the path
before him. "I thought you'd come back," continued Pinny Penny, calmly
rubbing the mud from his fingers and putting out his hand. "So it was
your horse, after all." His gaze rested speculatively on the splendid
white steed and richly jeweled robes of Skamperoo. "And you've made
your fortune, I see! Well, welcome home anyway, your crown's hanging
on a nail back of the throne and I think you will find everything in
order."

"In order! Why, it looks wonderful!" shouted Skamperoo, leaping
exuberantly out of the saddle, and honestly surprised and pleased at
the pleasure he felt in seeing old Pinny Penny again. "You've had the
palace painted and this garden and that fountain and the flowers.
They're all new, aren't they?"

"Yes," agreed Pinny Penny guardedly. "I made a few new laws while you
were gone, Skamper, making the tax only one-twentieth of our subjects'
earnings. They were so grateful and delighted, they've been sending you
presents ever since. Then the guards (having no drill or marching to
bother them, I did away with THAT, too), the guards in their odd time
agreed to work around the castle and we've been brightening up the old
place quite a bit. I tell you," Pinny Penny exhaled his breath noisily,
"we'll make a going and coming country of this yet!"

"Of course we will," said Skamperoo, bouncing happily along at his
side. "I've had a lot of experience since I saw you, old Skinny Pins.
Ho, Pinny, my boy, I've been an Emperor in Oz!"

"OZ? Never!" Closing his lips into a thin line, Pinny Penny looked from
his Master to Chalk, who was stepping sedately along on his other side.

"But it's perfectly true," whinnied the white horse, prancing a bit
from sheer enjoyment, "and now we are home with five splendid wishes."

"Wishes?" sniffed Pinny Penny, rearing his head suspiciously. "What
good are wishes?"

"But these wishes really work and come true," explained Chalk with a
toss of his head, "and what's more they are going to work and come true
for Skampavia!"

"Any wish you work hard enough for will come true," insisted Pinny
Penny stubbornly. "Wishes--POOH! Wishes--POOH! 'If wishes were horses,
beggars would ride!'" finished the little Prime Minister half under his
breath.

"But don't you see?" Skamperoo grasped Pinny Penny firmly by the
shoulders. "This is one time when wishes WERE horses and beggars DID
ride. My first wish was for a horse and here he is, and as true as you
are and as wise and clever. Why, even if the magic emeralds give me
nothing more, I am still the luckiest fellow on this side of the Deadly
Desert!"

"Moons, stars, and rainbows! I believe you have gotten some sense,"
gasped Pinny Penny, staring with wide eyes into Skamperoo's face. "And
that's the first good I ever knew to come of magic."

Pulling Pinny Penny down to his old bench, now neatly mended and
painted green, the King of Skampavia told his little Prime Minister the
whole story I have just been telling you. When he finished and settled
back complacently, Pinny Penny instead of looking glad or pleased
stared mournfully at the ground.

"_Now_ what's the matter?" demanded Skamperoo, clapping him impatiently
on the back, while Chalk, breaking off a little branch with his teeth,
tickled Pinny Penny mischievously under the chin. "Why are you so sad
and solemn?"

"Because"--Pinny Penny ground the toe of his boot deeply into the
gravel in the path--"if you really have five more magic wishes, you'll
probably be going to some grand other place and be spending the rest of
your life in travel."

"If that were so, we wouldn't be here at all," puffed Skamperoo. "Now
get this through your head, old fellow. We are here by our own wish and
from now on my own country is good enough for me and when we've made
these five good wishes--good enough for anybody!"

"There you go! There you go!" groaned Pinny Penny, covering his face
with his hands. "It's the wishes I'm afraid of."

"Well, you needn't be!" With a great effort Skamperoo made his first
really great and wise decision. "You shall make the wishes yourself,
Pinny Penny, and I shall save only one in case of trouble!"

"Bravo! Bravo!" snorted Chalk, prancing three times round the green
bench.

"Me? You really mean me?" quavered Pinny Penny, pointing an unbelieving
finger at his own mid-section. Then, as Skamperoo nodded and before he
could change his mind, the old Chancellor fairly leapt into the air.

"I wish the King of this country to always be as wise and generous as
he has succeeded in being at this moment, as wise as the young Fairy
Ruler of Oz," panted Pinny Penny. "I wish that the people of Skampavia,
using the powers and abilities they already have, shall make this a
rich, happy, and prosperous Kingdom. I wish that the climate and soil,
the only bad features about which we might complain, shall become mild
and fertile! That's all, that's all I can think of!" confessed Pinny
Penny, shrinking happily back on the bench.

"Then I'll make a wish," whinnied Chalk, shaking his beautiful golden
mane. "I wish that we three may never be separated! Long live the KING
AND HIS PRIME MINISTER!"

"And his horse!" cried Skamperoo, bounding up to seize Chalk's bridle.

"And his horse!" echoed Pinny Penny heartily, running round to seize
Chalk's bridle on the other side. "We three for Skampavia forever!"

Then, with Chalk stepping proudly in the center, these three strangely
assorted comrades made their way into the palace. Knowing the power
of the magic emeralds, and also the magic power of knowledge and
experience, I am sure that Skampavia under its new regime, will soon be
as happy and prosperous as any Nation in Oz!

THE END

